<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Covenanters of Damascus; A Hitherto Unknown Jewish Sect</title>
      <author><name reg="Moore, George Foot">George Foot Moore</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>April 12, 2010</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">31960</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="he"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2010-04-12">April 12, 2010</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Meredith Bach, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Covenanters of Damascus;</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">A Hitherto Unknown Jewish Sect</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">George Foot Moore</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Harvard University</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Harvard Theological Review</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Vol. 4, No. 3</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">July, 1911</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>


<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Covenanters Of Damascus; A Hitherto
Unknown Jewish Sect</head>

<p>
Among the Hebrew manuscripts recovered in 1896 from the
Genizah of an old synagogue at Fostat, near Cairo, and now in
the Cambridge University Library, England, were found eight
leaves of a Hebrew manuscript which proved to be fragments of
a book containing the teaching of a peculiar Jewish sect; a single
leaf of a second manuscript, in part parallel to the first, in part
supplementing it, was also discovered. These texts Professor
Schechter has now published, with a translation and commentary,
in the first volume of his <hi rend='italic'>Documents of Jewish
Sectaries</hi>.<note place='foot'>Documents of Jewish Sectaries. Volume I. Fragments of
a Zadokite Work. Edited, with Translation, Introduction, and Notes, by S. Schechter.
Cambridge University Press. 1910.</note>
The longer and older of the manuscripts (A) is, in the opinion
of the editor, probably of the tenth century; the other (B), of
the eleventh or twelfth.
</p>

<p>
What remains of the book may be divided into two parts.
Pages 1-8 of A, and the single leaf of B, contain exhortations and
warnings addressed to members of the sect, for which a ground
and motive are often sought in the history of the Jewish people
or of the sect itself, together with severe strictures upon such as
have lapsed from the sound teaching, and polemics against the
doctrine and practice of other bodies of Jews. The second part,
pages 9-16, sets forth the constitution and government of the
community, and its distinctive interpretation and application of
the law,&mdash;what may be called sectarian <foreign rend='italic'>halakah</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
Neither part is complete; the manuscript is mutilated and
defective at the end, there is apparently a gap between the first
and second parts, and it may be questioned whether the original
beginning of the work is preserved. The lack of methodical
arrangement in the contents leads Dr. Schechter to surmise that
<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>
what we have in our hands is only a compilation of extracts from
a larger work, put together with little regard for completeness or
order. An orderly disposition, according to our notions of order,
is not, however, so constant a characteristic of Jewish literature
as to make this inference very convincing.
</p>

<p>
Manuscript A was evidently written by a negligent scribe,
perhaps after a poor or badly preserved copy; B, which represents
a somewhat different recension of the work, exhibits, so far as it
goes, a superior text. When it is added that both manuscripts
are in many places defaced or torn, it may be imagined that the
decipherment and interpretation present serious difficulties, and
that, after all the pains which Dr. Schechter has spent upon the
task, many uncertainties remain. Facsimiles of a page of each
manuscript are given; but in view of the condition of the text a
photographic reproduction of the whole is indispensable.
</p>

<p>
The legal part of the book, so far as the text is fairly well preserved,
is not exceptionally difficult; the rules are in general
clearly defined, and if in the peculiar institutions of the sect there
are many things we do not fully understand, this is due more to
the brevity with which its organization is described and to the
mutilation of the text than to lack of clearness in the description
itself. The attempt to make out something of the history and
relations of the sect from the first part of the book is, on the other
hand, beset by many difficulties. What history is found there
is not told for the sake of history, but used to point admonitions
or emphasize warnings; and, after the manner of the apocalyptic
literature, historical persons and events are referred to in roundabout
phrases which envelop them in an affected mystery. Even
when such references are to chapters of the national history with
which we are moderately well acquainted, as in the Assumption of
Moses, c. 5, ff., for example, they may be to us baffling enigmas;
much more when they have to do, as is in large part the case in
our texts, with the wholly unknown internal or external history of
a sect. The obscurity is increased by the fact that the allusions
are often a tissue of fragmentary quotations or reminiscences out
of the Old Testament, chosen and combined, it seems, by purely
verbal association, or taken in an occult allegorical sense.<note place='foot'>It
may be added that the quotations are singularly inexact.</note> The
<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>
allegories of which an interpretation is given, as when Amos 5 26 f.
is applied to the emigration to Damascus and the institutions
and laws of the sect, and Ezekiel 44 15 to the classes of the
community, do not encourage us to think that we should be able
to divine the meaning by our unaided intelligence. It is a fortunate
circumstance that the writer comes back more than once to
the salient events in the sect's history, for these repetitions of the
same thing in different forms afford considerable help to the interpreter,
so that the main facts may be made out with at least
a considerable degree of probability.
</p>

<p>
The principal seat of the sect was in the region of Damascus,
where its adherents formed numerous communities. It was
composed of Israelites who had migrated thither from Judaea;
thither also had come <q>the interpreter of the law,</q> the founder
of the sect; there it had been organized by a covenant repeatedly
referred to as <q>the new covenant in the land of Damascus.</q>
Many who entered into this new covenant at the beginning did
not long remain true to it; the writer inveighs vehemently
against those who fell away, accusing them not only of grave
error, but of gross violations of the law; but this crisis had been
passed, and when the book was written the community was
apparently flourishing.
</p>

<p>
The most coherent account of the origin of the sect is found
on pages 5-6:<note place='foot'>In my translation
I have sometimes thought it possible to adhere to the
text where Dr. Schechter has preferred a conjectural emendation.</note>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
At the end of the devastation of the land arose men who removed
the boundary and led Israel astray; and the land was laid waste because
they spoke rebelliously against the commandments of God by Moses and
also against his holy Anointed,<note place='foot'>That is, probably,
against the legitimate high priest of the time (perhaps
Onias).&mdash;The rendering <q><emph>by</emph> his Anointed</q>
is grammatically admissible, but
would be unintelligible in this context.</note> and prophesied falsehood to turn Israel
back from following God. But God remembered the covenant with the
forefathers, and he raised up from Aaron discerning men and from Israel
wise men, and he heard them, and they dug the well. <q>The well, princes
dug it, nobles of the people delved it, with the legislator</q> (Numbers 21 18).
The well is the law, and they who dug it are the captivity of Israel<note place='foot'>It
would be possible to render <q>the penitents of Israel.</q></note>
who went forth from the land of Judah and sojourned in the land of
<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>
Damascus, all of whom God called princes because they sought him.<note place='foot'>The
four or five words which follow are unintelligible.</note>...
The legislator is the interpreter of the law, as Isaiah said, <q>Bringing forth
a tool for his work</q> (Isa. 54 16), and the nobles of the people are those
who came to delve the well with the statutes which the legislator decreed
that men should walk in them in the complete end of wickedness; and
besides these they shall not obtain any (statutes) until the teacher of
righteousness shall arise in the last times.
</quote>

<p>
The migration is referred to in several other places: <q>The
captivity of Israel, who migrated from the land of Judah</q>
(4 2 f.);<note place='foot'>The references are to page and line of
the Hebrew text.</note> <q>those who held firm made their escape to the northern
land,</q> by which the region of Damascus is meant (7 13 f.; cf.
7 15, 18 f.). The time of the migration is plainly indicated in
the passage quoted above (5 20 ff.). The men who, after the
end of the devastation of the land, <q>removed the boundary,</q>
and led Israel astray, speaking rebelliously against the commandments
of God by Moses and against his holy Anointed, prophesying
falsely to turn Israel away from following God, in consequence
of which the land was laid waste, are most naturally
taken for the hellenizing leaders of the Seleucid time. In this
period, it seems that a number of Jews, including priests and
levites, withdrew to the region of Damascus,<note place='foot'>Others
sought refuge in Egypt; the temple of Onias at Leontopolis had its
origin in the same circumstances.</note> and there they
subsequently bound themselves by covenant to live strictly in
accordance with the law as defined by their legislator.
</p>

<p>
With this the other allusions agree. Thus in A, p. 8 (= B, p.
19), at the end of a violent invective against the sinners, of whom
it is said, <q>The princes of Judah are like those who remove the
boundary,</q> we read that <q>they separated not from the people
[and their sins, B], but presumptuously broke through all restraints,
walking in the way of the wicked (heathen), of whom
God said, <q>The venom of dragons is their wine, and the head
of asps is cruel</q><note place='foot'>So they understood the
words translated in the English version <q>the cruel
venom of asps.</q></note> (Deut. 32 33). The dragons are the kings of the
nations, and their wine means their ways, and the head of asps
is the head of the Greek kings who came to inflict vengeance upon
them.</q> This again is most naturally understood of Antiochus
<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>
Epiphanes; the calamities he brought on the Jews were a direct
consequence of the course of the hellenizing party.<note place='foot'>See 2
Macc. 4 16: <q>By reason of which (sc. their predilection for Greek
ways) a dire calamity befel them, and those for whose customs they displayed
such zeal and whom they wanted to imitate in everything became their enemies
and avengers.</q> Assumption of Moses, 5 1: <q>When the times of retribution
shall draw near, and vengeance arises through kings who share their guilt and
punish them,</q> etc., describes the same situation.</note>
</p>

<p>
A definite date for these occurrences is given in 1 5 ff.: <q>When
God's wrath was over, three hundred and ninety years after he
gave them into the power of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon,
he visited them, and caused to spring up from Israel and Aaron a
root of his planting to inherit his land and to thrive on the good
things of his earth. And they recognized their wickedness and
knew that they were guilty men, and they were like blind men and
like men groping their way for twenty years. And God took note
of their deeds, that with perfect heart they sought him, and he
raised up for them a teacher of righteousness to guide them in the
way of his heart.</q>
</p>

<p>
The <q>root</q> which God, mindful of his covenant, caused to
spring up from Aaron and Israel is the men with whom the religious
revival, or reformation, began, the forefathers of the sect
(see 6 2 f., and below, p. <ref target='Pg375'>375</ref>);<note place='foot'>Cf.
<q>the whole race of the elect root,</q> Enoch 93 8.</note>
the <q>teacher of righteousness</q> is
the <q>interpreter of the law who came to Damascus</q> (6 7 f., 7 18
f.). The dates refer therefore to the origin of the sect. Three
hundred and ninety years from the taking of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar
(597 or 586 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>) would bring us, by our chronology,
to 207 or 196 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi> The Jewish chronology of the Persian period
is, however, always too long by from forty to seventy years,<note place='foot'>See
Schürer, Geschichte des jüdischen Volkes (3 ed.), vol. iii. p. 189.</note>
and assuming, as it is fair to do, that our author made the same
error, the three hundred ninety years would run out in the middle
of the third century. Dr. Schechter suspects, with much probability,
that the original reading was <q><emph>four</emph> hundred and ninety
years,</q> the common apocalyptic cycle (Dan. 9 2, 24; Enoch
89-90; 93, etc.). Making the same allowance for error, we
should be brought again to a time not far removed from the punishment
<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>
inflicted on the people by Antiochus Epiphanes (see
above, p. <ref target='Pg333'>333</ref> f.).<note place='foot'><p>A
comparison with the Apocalypse of the Ten Weeks in Enoch (93 +
91 12-17) is in point here. The sixth <q>week</q> (period of 490 years) ends with
the destruction of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar; in the seventh a rebellious
generation arises, all whose works are apostasy (the hellenizers of the Seleucid
time); at its end the <q>chosen righteous men of the eternal plantation of
righteousness</q> are chosen to receive the sevenfold instruction about God's whole
creation (apparently the cosmological revelations of Enoch); the historical retrospect
closes before the robbery and desecration of the temple by Antiochus
Epiphanes (170, 168 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>), of which the seer knows nothing.
The chronological error here amounts to sixty or seventy years.
</p>
<p>
In the Introduction, p. xii, by a typographical error which is repeated on
p. xxii, Dr. Schechter says that the 390 years of the text would bring us <q>to
within a generation of Simon the Just, who flourished about 290
<hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>,</q> and twenty
years more would bring us into the midst of the hellenistic persecutions preceding
the Maccabaean revolt (about 170 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>). Margoliouth, whose
hypothesis 490 does not suit any better than 390, takes courage from Schechter's doubts
to disregard the numbers altogether. Gressmann (Internationale Wochenschrift,
March 4, 1911) is led by metrical considerations to treat all the chronological
notices as interpolations, and gives them no further consideration. But even
if the figures were introduced by a later hand, they may still represent the tradition
of the sect.</p></note>
</p>

<p>
There is nothing in the texts which demands a later date for the
origin of the sect. The last event in the national history to which
reference is made is the vengeance inflicted on the heathenizing
rulers of the people by <q>the head of the Greek kings.</q> To the
misfortunes of the people in the following centuries, such as the
taking of Jerusalem by Pompey or its destruction by Titus, there
is no allusion. It may perhaps be inferred not only that the
schism antedated these calamities, but that the book was written
before them. In the author's frame of mind toward the religious
leaders of Palestinian Jewry, he would have been likely to
record such conspicuous judgments upon them. A comparison
with the Assumption of Moses is instructive on this point. There
the sweeping denunciation of the priesthood and the scribes,
<q>their teachers in those times,</q> and of the godless Asmonaean
priest-kings, is followed by the well-deserved judgment inflicted
on them by Herod, and after him comes Varus, burning part of
the temple, crucifying, and carrying off into slavery. The second
of the Psalms of Solomon may also be compared.
</p>

<p>
The schismatic character of the sect would also be explained
<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>
if it arose in an age when the character of the political and religious
heads of the Jewish people was such as to move God-fearing
and law-abiding men to repudiate them with all their ways and
works. For it is not merely with a sect, differing from the mass
of their fellows in certain opinions and practices, that we have to
do, but with a schism. The Covenanters of Damascus are radical
come-outers, seceders not only from the land of Judaea, but
from established Judaism, on which they look much as the Puritan
Separatists in the seventeenth century looked on the English
Church; they might have taken to themselves the prophetic word
so often in the mouth of the Puritan, <q>Depart ye, depart ye,
go ye out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go ye out of the
midst of her; be ye clean, ye that bear the vessels of the Lord</q>
(Isa. 52 11), as they do apply to the religious teachers of the Jewish
church the most violent invectives of the same prophet (50 11,
59 4 ff.; see below, p. <ref target='Pg344'>344</ref> f.). They will not even call
themselves Jews, they are Israelites who went forth from the land of Judaea;
their Messiah is to spring from Aaron and Israel, not from Judah;
when the final judgment comes in its appointed time, it will no
longer be permitted to make compact with the house of Judah,
but every man must stand in his own stronghold;<note place='foot'>Perhaps
we should emend <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>ma'mādō</foreign>,
<q>station,</q> i.e. sect.</note> when the glory
of God shines out on Israel, all the wicked of Judah shall be cut
off, in the day of its trial by fire. They reject the temple in Jerusalem,
and will not offer on its altar. If we consider that the Essenes,
notwithstanding their wider divergence from the common
type of Judaism, seem to have regarded themselves as within the
pale of the church, and to have been so regarded by others&mdash;enjoying,
indeed, with the people the reputation of peculiar sanctity&mdash;the
schismatic character of our sect appears in a still stronger
light.
</p>

<p>
The language of the book is not inconsistent with the age to
which the contents would seem to assign it. The vocabulary
is in the main Biblical, but there are a number of words which
otherwise occur only in the writings of the Mishnic age or later.
Some of these belong to the technical terminology of the law
schools, some of them appear to be peculiar to the sect. A few
of the Biblical words also are used in later senses and applications.
<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>
It is proper to bear in mind, however, that the Hebrew originals
of the works with which it would be most natural to compare our
text, such as Enoch, the Book of Jubilees, the Testaments of the
Twelve Patriarchs, the Gospel, are not preserved; in fact, between
the last books of the Old Testament and the rabbinical literature
of the second Christian century there is a hiatus in the history
of the Hebrew language, so that words which appear for the
first time in the Mishna and kindred works may have been, and
in many cases probably were, in use much earlier. It is unnecessary
therefore to suppose that such words were introduced into
our texts by later scribes, though the possibility of such changes
must of course be admitted. The particular instances in which
Dr. Schechter thinks that late and foreign influences are most
clearly to be recognized&mdash;the title of the <q>censor</q> and the
peculiar name for a house of worship&mdash;are discussed elsewhere.<note place='foot'>See
below, p. <ref target='Pg350'>350</ref>, <ref target='Pg354'>354</ref> f.</note>
More remarkable than the vocabulary of the book is its syntax.
The consecutive constructions of the perfect and the imperfect
are regularly employed, not only in imitation of Biblical models
in narrative and prophetic passages, but in the legal part of the
book; and in spite of some irregularities, which may in part at
least be laid to the charge of scribes, the use of these tenses is
generally correct. In this respect the Hebrew of the book differs
entirely from that of the Mishna and the contemporary and later
Midrashim, in which the characteristic features of classical tense-syntax
have entirely disappeared, under the influence, it is generally
supposed, of the Aramaic vernacular. In comparison with
these writings the vocabulary also is notably free from foreign
admixture. There are no words borrowed from Greek and Latin,
and only one or two instances where an Aramaic term seems to
have been adopted. The orthography also, in its more sparing
use of the semivowels to indicate the vowels <hi rend='italic'>u</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>i</hi>, resembles
that of the Bible.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The founder of the sect is called the <q>teacher of righteousness</q>
(1 11),<note place='foot'>Cf. Isa. 30 20 f.</note> <q>the only,
or beloved, teacher</q> (20 14);<note place='foot'>The Septuagint renders
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>yāḥīd</foreign> most frequently by ἀγαπητός, less often
by μονογενής.</note> <q>the only
<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>
one</q> (20 32); he is <q>the legislator,</q> that is, <q>the interpreter
of the law</q> (6 7); and this interpreter of the law, who came to
Damascus, is the star who, according to Balaam's prophecy,
was to issue from Jacob (7 18 f.).<note place='foot'>The same prophecy which
was applied by Akiba to Bar Cocheba and by
the Dositheans to their founder (see below, p. <ref target='Pg362'>362</ref>).</note>
He showed them how to walk
in the way of God's heart (1 11); as interpreter of the law he
ordained them statutes to walk in till the end of wickedness&mdash;statutes
which shall not be superseded by any others <q>until
there arise the teacher of righteousness in the last days</q> (6 11 f.).
To him, therefore, are attributed the distinctive principles and
observances of the sect as they are set forth in this book. <q>His
anointed,</q> through whom God made known to men his holy
spirit, and who is true (2 12 f.), is in all probability the same
person with the teacher, the star, just as the anointed from Aaron
and Israel who is to arise in the future (20 1) is the same as the
teacher of righteousness to whose voice they will then listen
(20 32; see below, p. <ref target='Pg343'>343</ref>).
</p>

<p>
Those of the emigrants who accepted the guidance of the
teacher of righteousness, the interpreter of the law, entered into
the <q>new covenant in the land of Damascus</q> (6 19, 8 21, 19 33 f.,
20 12). The idea of the <q>new covenant</q> was doubtless suggested
by Jer. 31 31 ff. (cf. 32 36 ff.; Ezek. 37 26, etc.), where the establishment
of the new covenant, in the stead of the old covenant
which their fathers broke, marks the restoration of God's favor,
the beginning of a new and better time. The same use of the
passage in Jeremiah is made at length by the author of the Epistle
to the Hebrews (8 6 ff.), The substance of the covenant may
be gathered from 6 11-7 5:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
All who were brought into the covenant are not to enter into the sanctuary
to light its altar, but became closers of the door, as God said, <q>Who
among you will close its door?</q> and <q>Thou shalt not light my altar in
vain</q> (Mal. 1 10);<note place='foot'>The sect rejects the
temple in Jerusalem and its worship. Cf. 20 21 f., in
the last crisis, <q>they will lean upon God ... and will declare the sanctuary
unclean and will return to God.</q></note> but
shall observe to do according to the interpretation
of the law for the end of wickedness, and to separate from the children
of perdition, and to keep aloof from unrighteous gain, which is unclean
by vow and ban,<note place='foot'>Perhaps better, keep aloof, by vow and ban, from
unrighteous, unclean gain.</note> and from the property of the sanctuary, and from
<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>
robbing the poor of the people and making widows their spoil and murdering
orphans; and to separate between the unclean and the clean,
and to show the difference between the holy and the common; and to
observe the Sabbath day as it is defined, and the season feasts, and the
fast-day, in accordance with the commandments of those who entered
into the new covenant in the land of Damascus; to set apart the sacred
dues as they are defined; and that a man should love his neighbor as himself,
and sustain the poor and needy and the proselyte, and to seek each
the welfare of the other; and that no man transgress the prohibited degrees,
but guard against fornication according to the rule; and that a
man should reprove his brother according to the commandment, and
not bear a grudge from day to day; and to separate from all forms of
uncleanness according to their several prescriptions; and that a man
should not defile his holy spirit, even as God separated for them (sc.
unclean from clean). All who walk in these precepts in perfection of
holiness, according to all the foundations of the covenant of God,<note place='foot'>See
below, p. <ref target='Pg353'>353</ref>.</note>
have the assurance that they shall live a thousand generations.
</quote>

<p>
Early in the history of the sect a serious defection occurred.
Men who entered among the first into the covenant incurred
guilt, like their forefathers, by following their sinful inclinations;
they forsook the covenant of God and preferred their own will,
and went about after the stubbornness of their heart, every man
doing as he pleased (3 10 ff.); the men who entered into the new
covenant in the land of Damascus went back and proved false,
and turned aside from the well of living waters (19 33 f.). Their
names were struck out of the registers of the sect, as were those
of such as fell away in later times.
</p>

<p>
We can readily imagine that many found the rule of the sect
too strict and the discipline by which it was enforced too severe.
Our texts, however, speak not of such occasional and individual
lapses, but of the repudiation of the covenant by numbers at one
time. It seems that another leader had arisen, of very different
temper from the founder, who drew away many after him. In
the eyes of those who remained steadfast in the faith, the new
teacher was naturally a false prophet, a kind of antichrist. He
is called the liar (<q>the man of lies,</q> 20 15), the scoffer (1 14); his
adherents are scoffers,<note place='foot'>The name comes from
Isa. 28 14, where the scorners are the rulers in Jerusalem,
who boast of their covenant with death and their compact with hell, who
have made lies their refuge and hidden themselves in falsehood. See also Isa.
29 20.</note> who uttered error about the righteous
<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>
statutes, and spurned the covenant and plighted faith which
they established in the land of Damascus, that is to say, the new
covenant. They and their families shall have no portion in the
house of the law (20 10 ff.). For their unfaithfulness they were
delivered to the sword (3 10 ff.), until of all the men of war who
went with the liar none was left (20 14 ff.).<note place='foot'>It might
be surmised that the false prophet had headed an insurrection&mdash;perhaps
a Messianic rising&mdash;which ended in disaster.</note> This came to pass
about forty years after the death of the unique teacher (<hi rend='italic'>l.c.</hi>). If
the emigration to Damascus occurred under Antiochus Epiphanes,<note place='foot'>See
above, p. <ref target='Pg333'>333</ref>.</note>
the end of the episode of the false prophet would fall about
the beginning of the first century <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>, and we should have at
least an upper limit for the writing of the book. The passion
which every mention of this defection arouses suggests that it
was fresh in memory, and would incline us to date the writing
not very long after the time indicated. It should be observed,
however, that the sentence which counts forty years from the
death of the unrivalled teacher to the end of the liar's army
sits loose in the context, and may be a gloss, in which case the
book might be some decades older.
</p>

<p>
With the remnant who remained faithful through the great
defection <q>God confirmed his covenant with Israel forever, revealing
to them the secret of things in which all Israel was in error,
his holy Sabbaths and his glorious festivals and his righteous testimonies
and his true ways and the pleasure of his will, things
which if a man do he shall live by them. He opened a way before
them, and they dug a well for copious waters.</q> <q>In the abundance
of his wonderful grace he atoned for their guilt and forgave
their transgression, and built for them a sure house in Israel,
the like of which did not arise in times past nor until now</q> (3 12-20).
The prediction of the sure house (1 Sam. 2 35) seems to be
fulfilled in the stability of the sect itself, or perhaps, with closer
adherence to the prophecy, in that of its faithful priesthood.
</p>

<p>
So much may be gathered from the book about the origin and
history of the sect. We turn now to its expectation. As a
teacher of righteousness, an anointed one (priest), was the founder
of the sect, so in the last times a teacher of righteousness, an
<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>
anointed one, shall appear (6 10 f.). Those who proved faithless
to the covenant are cut off from the community, <q>from the time
when the unique teacher was taken away until the anointed one
from Aaron and Israel shall arise</q> (19 35-20 1), that is, during
the whole of the present dispensation. Dr. Schechter regards
the anointed one who is to appear in the future as the founder
of the sect <hi rend='italic'>redivivus:</hi> the present dispensation <q>seems to be the
period intervening between the <emph>first</emph> appearance of the Teacher
of Righteousness (p. 1, l. 11) (the founder of the Sect), who was
gathered in or died,<note place='foot'>Or, as Schechter elsewhere
expresses it, <q>disappeared.</q> Among the synonyms
for death, Aaron ben Eliahu names <q>gather in</q> (Isa. 58 8).</note>
and the second appearance of the Teacher of
Righteousness who is to rise in <q>the end of the days</q> (p. 6, l. 11).
Moreover, the Only Teacher, or Teacher of Righteousness, is
identical with the Messiah, or the Anointed one from Aaron and
Israel, whose advent is expected by the Sect.</q><note place='foot'>Introduction,
p. xiii.</note> The texts,
however, say nothing of the disappearance, or a second appearance,
or reappearance, or return of the founder; nor do the words
<q>until the teacher of righteousness shall arise in the last days,</q>
<q>until the anointed shall arise from Aaron and Israel,</q> mean that
he shall rise from the dead, as Dr. Schechter interprets them.<note place='foot'>P.
xiii. <q>We gather from another passage that the Only Teacher found
his death in Damascus, but is expected to rise again (p. 19, l. 35; p. 20, l. 1; cf.
also p. 6, l. 11).</q> The verb <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>'āmad</foreign>
means, as frequently in the later books of the
Old Testament, <q>appear upon the scene.</q> In this sense it occurs repeatedly in
the book before us, and there is nothing in the context here to suggest a different
interpretation.</note>
The Messiah whose advent the sect expects at the end of the present
period of history is, as in the older parts of the Testaments of
the Twelve Patriarchs, a priest; and the function of the priest-messiah
is not, as in the Epistle to the Hebrews, to mediate between
man and God, but to instruct men in righteousness, to guide
them in the way of God's heart. That the founder of the sect
also was both priest and teacher is by no means sufficient to establish
the identity of the two figures. It was the office of the priest
to teach Israel the law, <q>all the statutes which the Lord hath
spoken unto them through Moses</q> (Lev. 10 11; cf. Deut. 33 10);
<q>the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek
<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>
the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of Hosts</q>
(Mal. 2 7). Ezra is the type of a priest who had not only prepared
his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it, but to
teach in Israel statutes and judgments (Ezra 7 10); he was,
according to the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, the restorer of
Judaism. It was a departure from the ideal of the law itself
that, when the priesthood showed itself unworthy of its calling,
the teaching function was assumed by lay scribes, and even in
later times there were many priestly teachers among the Scribes
and among the Doctors. That our sect looks back to one such as
its founder, and forward to another as the great teacher of the
Messianic age, is in no way surprising. If the author had meant
what Dr. Schechter thinks, it is fair to assume that he would have
said it unmistakably; for the identity of the expected Messiah
with the dead founder, if it was part of the belief of the sect,
would of necessity be a singular and significant part of it.<note place='foot'>Cf.
Acts 1 11.</note>
</p>

<p>
The coming judgment of God is represented rather as a judgment
on the faithless members of the sect, including those who
have seceded from it or been expelled, than in its more general
aspects. The long eschatological passage in B (20 15 to the end)
is illegible in spots near the beginning, but the general tenor is
clear:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
In that consummation the anger of God will be inflamed against
Israel, as he said, <q>There is no king and no prince, and no judge and
none that reproves in righteousness</q> (cf. Hos. 3 4). Those who turn
from the transgression [of Jacob]<note place='foot'>See Isa. 59 20.</note>
and keep the covenant of God will
then confer with one another; their footsteps will be firm in the way of
God (and the prophecy will be fulfilled which says), <q>And God hearkened
to their words and heard, and a book of remembrance was written
before him for those that fear God and think on his name</q> (Mal. 3 16),
until deliverance and righteousness emerge for those that fear God,
<q>and ye shall return and see the difference between righteous and wicked,
and between a servant of God and one who serves him not</q> (Mal. 3 18).
And he shows favor to those that love him and keep his commandments,
for a thousand generations....<note place='foot'>The quotation
is to be thus restored; see Exod. 20 6 and Deut. 7 9. The
next two or three lines are very obscure: <q>From the house of Peleg, who went
out (or, will go out) from the city of the sanctuary, and they will rely on God
(cf. Isa. 10 20) when the transgression of Israel is at an end, and will declare the
sanctuary unclean, and will return to God. The prince (?) of the people with
few words (??).</q> The house of Peleg may be an etymological allegory for the
seceders; the city of the sanctuary is probably Jerusalem (cf. 6 11 ff., above,
p. 338); but neither the connection with the preceding nor the meaning of the
sequel is clear.</note>
</p>

<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>

<p>
Each man according to his spirit, shall they be judged by his holy
counsel, and all who have broken through the bounds of the law, of
those who entered into the covenant, when the glory of God shines out
on Israel, shall be cut off from the midst of the camp, and with them
all the evil-doers of Judah, in the days when it is tried in the fire. But
all who held firmly by these precepts, going out and coming in in conformity with
the law, and listened to the voice of the teacher, will confess<note place='foot'>Text,
<q>and confessed,</q> which leaves the sentence without a predicate.</note>
before God.... <q>We have done evil, we, and our fathers also,
when they went contrary to the statutes of the covenant, and faithful are
thy judgments upon us.</q> And they will not act presumptuously against
his holy statutes and his righteous judgment and his faithful testimonies.
They will be instructed in the ancient judgments by which
the followers of the unique one were judged, and will hearken to the
words of the teacher of righteousness. And they will not controvert
the righteous statutes when they hear them; they will rejoice and be
glad, and their heart will be strong, and they will show themselves
mighty against all the people of the world.<note place='foot'>See also
7 20: <q>The sceptre</q> (Num. 24 17) <q>is the prince of all the congregation;
and when he arises he will destroy all the children of Seth.</q></note>
And God will atone for
them, and they will see his salvation with joy, because they trusted
in his holy name.
</p>
</quote>

<p>
Here the fragment ends. The destruction of those who fall
away from the sect is threatened in other places; it will suffice
to quote the most important (19 5 ff.):
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Upon all those who reject the commandments and the statutes, the
deserts of the wicked shall be requited when God visits the earth, when
the word comes to pass which was written by Zechariah the prophet,
<q>Sword, awake against my shepherd and against the man that is my
fellow, saith God; smite the shepherd, and let the sheep be scattered,
and I will turn my hand against the little ones</q> (Zech. 13 7). But
those who observe it (sc. the obligations of the covenant) are <q>the poor
of the flock</q> (Zech. 11 7). These shall escape at the end of the visitation,
but the former (sc. those who reject the commandments) shall be
given over to the sword when the Anointed of Aaron and Israel comes,
as it was at the end of the first visitation, of which God said by Ezekiel
that a mark should be made on the foreheads of them that sigh and cry,
<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>
and the rest were delivered to the sword that executes the judgment
of the covenant. And so shall the judgment be of all who enter into
his covenant and do not hold firmly by these statutes, they shall be
visited even with extermination by the hand of Belial. This is the day
in which God will visit, as he spoke, <q>The princes of Judah are become
like men who remove the boundary; on them will I pour out my fury
like water</q> (Hos. 5 10). For they entered into the covenant of repentance,
but did not turn aside from the way of faithless men, and wallowed
in ways of fornication and in unrighteous gain, and avenging themselves
and bearing a grudge against one another.
</quote>

<p>
It is possible, of course, that the judgment of the heathen world,
which looms so large in most of the apocalypses, may have had
a place in parts of the book now lost, but if it had been a very
important feature in the expectation of the sect we should hardly
fail to find at least allusions to it in the pages in our hands. The
author is almost exclusively interested in the sect itself, in the
division which had rent it, and in polemics against laxer interpretations
of the law. This limitation of the horizon is characteristically
sectarian, and may suggest, moreover, as has been
said above, that the writer is not far removed in time from the
split in the new organization.
</p>

<p>
The polemic is especially pointed against certain opponents
who are described as <q>those who build a wall and plaster it with
stucco</q> (4 19; 8 12).<note place='foot'>It is not improbable
that the author thought also of the other meaning
of the word <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>tāphēl</foreign>,
here rendered <q>stucco,</q> viz. something insipid, stupid; cf.
Lam. 2 14, in a passage which, like Ezek. 13 10, refers to the false prophets. I
see nothing to indicate that <q>the wall</q> is the fence or hedge which the Pharisaean
rabbis drew around the law to protect it from infraction, as Dr. Schechter
thinks.</note> They follow a commandment (<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>ṣau</foreign>);
probably connoting, as in Hosea 5 11, from which the phrase is
taken, an arbitrary rule of their own, a commandment of men.<note place='foot'>The text
explains, <q>this is the prater of whom it says, they prate unceasingly</q>
(4 19 f.; cf. Mic. 2 11). Dr. Schechter regards this explanation as <q>a
disturbing parenthesis.</q></note>
God hates them, his anger is kindled against them (8 18). These
<q>builders</q> are false teachers; Biblical denunciations of the false
prophets are applied to them. (See especially 8 12 f.) Points
in which their teaching is particularly assailed are that they allow
polygamy and the remarriage of divorced persons during the life of
the other party, and hold it lawful for a man to marry his niece;
<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>
that they defile the sanctuary by the laxity of some of their rules
and practice about sexual uncleanness; they presume blasphemously
to impugn the <q>statutes of the covenant of God</q> (the
legislation of the sect), declaring that they are not right, and
saying abominable things about them (4 20-5 14). The positions
so hotly denounced, especially in the matter of marriage
and divorce, are those of the Palestinian rabbis as we know them
in the Mishna and kindred works, and in so far as the Pharisees
had a dominating influence in the schools of the law they may
be regarded as in a peculiar sense the object of this invective,
which is, however, sweeping enough to include all rabbinical
Judaism. Such verses as Isaiah 50 11 and 59 4 ff. are hurled
at them; they are compared to Johanneh and his brother, whom
Belial raised up against Moses (5 17 ff.).<note place='foot'>The
Jannes and Jambres of 2 Tim. 3 8.</note>
</p>

<p>
The sect prohibited polygamy, which they stigmatized as fornication,
arguing from the creation&mdash;<q>a male and a female created
he them</q> (cf. Matt. 19 4), and from the story of the flood&mdash;<q>by
pairs they went into the ark,</q> and from the law which forbade
the prince to multiply wives unto himself (Deut. 17 17), that is,
as they understood it, to take more than one wife. To forestall
an objection, it is added: <q>But David had not read in the sealed
book of the law which was in the ark, for it was not opened in
Israel from the time of the death of Eleazar and Joshua and the
elders who worshipped the Astartes, but was hidden and not
brought to light until Zadok arose</q> (5 2-5; see below, p.
<ref target='Pg359'>359</ref>).
</p>

<p>
Marriage with another woman while a man had a divorced wife
living was apparently put in the same category with having two
wives at the same time (4 20 f.; cf. Matt. 5 31 f.). Marriage
with a niece (brother's or sister's daughter) they treated as incest,
reasoning that marriage between a woman and her uncle stood
on all fours with marriage between a man and his aunt, which was
expressly forbidden as within the prohibited degrees of kinship.<note place='foot'>Such
marriages, especially with a sister's daughter, are not only permitted,
but especially commended in the Talmud (Yebamoth 62b-63a; see Maimonides,
Issure Biah 2 14), and are still common in countries where the Jews are free to
follow the rabbinical law. On the Karaite prohibition of marriage with a niece,
see below, p. <ref target='Pg366'>366</ref>.</note>
The three snares of Belial by which he ensnared Israel
<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>
are fornication (that is, plural or incestuous unions), wealth (that
is, unrighteous gain), and the pollution of the sanctuary (4 15 f.;
cf. 5 6 f.).<note place='foot'>On the pollution of
the sanctuary, cf. Assumption of Moses 5 3; Testament
of Levi 14 5 ff.; Psalms of Solomon 2 3.</note>
</p>

<p>
The same rigorous tendency which appears in the attitude of
the sect in regard to marriage pervades the whole legal part of
the work before us. The rules for the observance of the Sabbath
(10 14-11 21) will make this clear.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
Concerning the Sabbath, to keep it as it is prescribed.
</p>

<p>
1. On the sixth day no man shall do any work from the time when
the disk of the sun is distant from the western portal<note place='foot'>On the
portals of the sun, see Enoch 72, etc.</note> by its diameter (?);
for this is what he said: Observe the Sabbath day to hallow it.
</p>

<p>
2. On the Sabbath a man shall not engage in any foolish conversation;
and he shall not exact repayment from his neighbor; nor shall he
give judgment in matters of property; he shall not talk about matters
of work and labor to be done on the next day.
</p>

<p>
3. A man shall not walk in the country to do the work of his business
on the Sabbath. He shall not walk outside of his town above one
thousand<note place='foot'>Perhaps an error of the text for 2000;
see below, § 8.</note> cubits.
</p>

<p>
4. No man shall eat on the Sabbath anything except what was previously
prepared or what is spoiling in the field. He shall not eat or
drink anything but what was in the camp. If he be on the way and
descend to bathe, he may drink as he stands, but must not draw water
in any vessel.<note place='foot'>Cf. Jubilees 50 8.</note>
</p>

<p>
5. He must not send a foreigner to do his business on the Sabbath day.
</p>

<p>
6. A man must not put on soiled garments or such as are brought by
a gentile, without washing them in water or rubbing them with
frankincense.<note place='foot'>This holds on week-days as well as on the Sabbath.</note>
</p>

<p>
7. A man shall not exchange pledges<note place='foot'>Perhaps we should
read, <q>make an <q><foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>erūb</foreign></q></q>
(a legal fiction by which dwellings
or limits were treated as one). The Sadducees and Samaritans rejected this
evasion of the law.</note> of his own accord on the
Sabbath.
</p>

<p>
8. A man shall not follow his cattle, to pasture them outside his town,
except within 2000 cubits. He shall not lift his arm to strike them with
his fist; if the animal is breachy, let him not take her out of the
house.
</p>

<p>
9. A man shall not take anything out of a house into the street, nor
<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>
bring anything from the street into the house; and if he be in the entry,
he shall not pass anything out of it or bring anything into it.
</p>

<p>
10. He shall not open on the Sabbath a vessel the cover of which has
been luted on.
</p>

<p>
11. A man shall not carry on his person spices, going out or coming
in on the Sabbath.
</p>

<p>
12. Within a house he shall not lift stone nor earth on the Sabbath
day.
</p>

<p>
13. The nurse shall not carry an infant in arms, going out or coming
in with it on the Sabbath.
</p>

<p>
14. A man shall not deal harshly with his slave or his maid or his
hired servant on the Sabbath.
</p>

<p>
15. A man shall not deliver cattle of their young on the Sabbath
day.
</p>

<p>
16. If a beast fall into a cistern or trap, a man shall not lift it out on
the Sabbath.
</p>

<p>
17. A man shall not pass the Sabbath in a place near the gentiles.
</p>

<p>
18. A man shall not profane the Sabbath for the sake of gain.
</p>

<p>
19. If a human being fall into a tank of water or into a place of ... no
man shall fetch him up by means of a ladder or a rope or any
implement.
</p>

<p>
20. No man shall bring upon the altar on the Sabbath anything except
the Sabbath burnt-offerings, for so it is written, <q>aside from your
Sabbaths.</q>
</p>
</quote>

<p>
The dietary laws afford other examples of the strict rules of
the sect.<note place='foot'>See 12 12 ff.</note> Fish
may be eaten only if, while still alive, they have
been split open and drained of their blood; grasshoppers and
locusts must be put alive into the water or the fire (in which they
are to be cooked); honey in the comb is apparently prohibited.
So, again, in a house in which a death has occurred, fixtures,
such as nails and pegs in the walls, are unclean; and wood, stone,
and dust are capable of contracting and communicating various
kinds of uncleanness (12 15-18). The sect sees in these stricter
distinctions between clean and unclean the superiority of its
ordinances over those of other Jews, whom they regard as sinfully
lax. The Pharisees are to them gross latitudinarians!
</p>

<p>
Oaths are to be taken only by the covenant and the curses of
the covenant, that is, the vows by which the members of the sect
bind themselves, on their admission to it, to live in conformity
with its rule and submit to the authority of those set over them,
<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>
and the curses invoked on such as violate these obligations.<note place='foot'>Similarly
the Essenes, at their reception into the order, bound themselves
by the <q>tremendous oaths</q> which Josephus describes, B. J. ii, 8 7.</note>
Oaths by God, whether under the name
<hi rend='italic'>Aleph Lamed</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>El</hi> or
<hi rend='italic'>Elohim</hi>) or
<hi rend='italic'>Aleph Daleth (Adonai)</hi> are prohibited;<note place='foot'>The
oath by the Tetragrammaton included <hi rend='italic'>a fortiori</hi>.</note>
nor is it permissible
to mention in the oath the law of Moses; the formula
of the oath is strictly sectarian (15 1 ff.).<note place='foot'>The Essenes
excluded oaths altogether, except in the initiation of members.
See also Slavonic Enoch 49 1; Philo, De spec. legibus ii, 1, and elsewhere
(Charles, Secrets of Enoch, p. 65). Our sect recognizes judicial oaths (9 8 ff.)
and imprecations (9 12), as well as vows under oath (16 6 ff.).</note>
But, though the name
of God is not used, <q>if a man swear and transgress the oath, he
profanes the name</q> (15 3). Obligations voluntarily assumed
under oath (vows) are to be fulfilled to the letter; neither redemption
nor annulment seems to be allowed, unless to carry
out the vow would be a transgression of the covenant.
</p>

<p>
Another point in which the sect is at variance with the great
body of the Jews is the calendar. They represent the faithful
remnant to whom God revealed the mysteries about which all
Israel went astray, his holy sabbaths and his glorious festivals,
and his righteous testimonies, and his true ways (3 12 ff.). The
point of this appears when it is compared with Jubilees 1 14:
<q>They will forget my law and all my commandments and all
my judgments, and will go astray as to new moons and sabbaths
and festivals and jubilees and ordinances</q> (cf. 6 34 ff.,
23 19). The texts before us do not explain what the peculiarities
of the sectarian calendar were, but inasmuch as the Book of
Jubilees, under the title <q>The Book of the Division of the Times
by their Jubilees and their Sabbatical Years,</q> is cited as an
authority for the exact determination of <q>their ends</q> (the coming
crisis of history), it may be inferred with much probability
that our sect had a calendar constructed on principles similar
to that of the Jubilees,<note place='foot'>On the relation of the
Jubilees to the sect, see further below, p.
<ref target='Pg359'>359</ref>.</note> in which the seasons and festivals were
not determined by lunar observations or astronomical tables, as
among the Jews generally, but had a fixed place in a solar year.
Such upsetting of the calendar is branded as heresy in Midrash
Tehillim on Ps. 28 5: <q>They do not regard the work of the Lord,
<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>
nor the operation of his hands.... <q>The operation of his hands</q>
means the new moons; as it is said, <q>God made the two great lights,</q> and it
is written, <q>He made the moon for festival seasons.</q><note place='foot'>Cf.
Jubilees 2 9, God appointed the sun ... for sabbaths, and months,
and feasts; and Jubilees 6 37, the observation of the moon disturbs the calendar.</note>
These are the heretics who do not calculate (by the moon) the
festival seasons and the equinoxes. <q>He will tear them down
and not build them up.</q> He will tear them down, in this world,
and not build them up, in the world to come.</q> Perhaps the
Boëthusians, who hired false witnesses to deceive the authorities
about the appearance of the new moon, were not merely animated
by a desire to harass the rabbis, but were partisans of
some such calendar reform.
</p>

<p>
The organization of the sect furnished it an effective means of
enforcing its rules by discipline. This organization is so peculiar
that it must be described in some detail. Like the normal Jewish
community, it consists of three classes, priests, levites, and
Israelites, to whom as a fourth class may be added proselytes.
In this order they are mustered and inscribed in the rolls of the
camp. In some sense all the members of the sect are priests.
Ezekiel 44 15 is quoted and explained: <q><q>The priests and the
levites and the sons of Zadok who kept the charge of his sanctuary</q>
[<hi rend='italic'>sic</hi>]. The priests are the exiles of Israel who migrated from
the land of Judah and [the levites are]<note place='foot'>It seems
necessary to supply these words.</note> those who attached
themselves to them; and the sons of Zadok are the chosen ones
of Israel, men designated by name, who arose in the last days.</q>
Allegory apart, it appears that the priests were of the Zadokite
line, but this legitimacy is assumed, not emphasized. Priests
and levites formed part of every court of ten judges (see below, p.
<ref target='Pg351'>351</ref>); and in every company of ten Israelites (the quorum of a
religious assembly), a priest, well versed in the Book of
Institutes,<note place='foot'><q>The book of
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>hagu</foreign>.</q> The rendering
<q>Institutes</q> is not offered as a translation
of the name, but as indicating the probable character of the work. See
below, p. <ref target='Pg353'>353</ref> f.</note>
must be present, to whose words all must conform. If
the priest does not possess the requisite qualifications, and a
competent levite is at hand, it shall be ordained that all who
enter the camp shall go out and come in at his orders. In a
<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>
case of leprosy the priest shall come and stand in the midst of
the camp and the Supervisor shall instruct him in the interpretation
of the law; even if the priest be an ignoramus, it is he who
must shut up the leper, for the decision belongs to them (13 1 ff.).
To a priest is assigned also the duty of taking the census of the
commonalty; he who fills this office must be between thirty and
sixty years old, versed in the Book of [Institutes and] in all the
prescriptions of the law, to pronounce them according to their
prescriptions (14 3 ff.).
</p>

<p>
A much more important place in the organization is filled by
an officer whose title (<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>mebaḳḳer</foreign>)
signifies <q>examiner,</q> <q>inspector,</q>
and may perhaps best be rendered <q>Supervisor.</q><note place='foot'>Dr. Schechter
renders <q>Censor,</q> and remarks, <q>Such an office, entirely
unknown to Judaism, could only have been borrowed from the Romans.</q> But
the functions of the Inspector or Supervisor bear no resemblance to those of the
Roman censors; and for the identity of the title the translator is solely accountable,
not the constitution of the sect. Mr. Margoliouth talks loosely about
dependence on Roman administrative models; it would be interesting to learn
in what particulars. With the very large authority vested in the Supervisor may
be compared that of the managers, or administrators (ἐπιμεληταί), among the
Essenes, <q>without whose directions they do nothing</q>; though the functions of
the managers in the Essene coenobite establishments were of course quite different
from those of the Supervisors of our sect.</note> Every <q>camp,</q>
or settlement, of the sect had a Supervisor, and over these stood
a <q>Supervisor of all the camps,</q> who must be a man in the prime
of life, between thirty and fifty years of age. To the Supervisor
of the individual camp it belonged to instruct the community
<q>in the works of God, and make them familiar with his wonderful
deeds of might, and recount before them the things that
happened long ago...; and he shall have compassion on them
as a father toward his children (13 7 ff.).</q><note place='foot'>In the
partly illegible lines that follow, his dealing with the congregation
is compared with that of a shepherd with his flock.&mdash;Dr. W. H. Ward suggests
that the title <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>mebaḳḳer</foreign>
may be connected with Ezek. 34 11 f., where the verb
is used of a shepherd's looking out for his flock.</note> We have seen that
he has even to instruct the priest in the rules for the diagnosis
of leprosy.<note place='foot'>As in Mishna
<hi rend='italic'>Yoma</hi> the High Priest has to be instructed by experts in the
ritual of the Day of Atonement, and made to swear not to depart from his
instructions.</note> The admission of new members to the sect is also
in his hands; no one is permitted to introduce a man into the
<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>
congregation without his consent. He examines the candidates
in regard to their character and intelligence, their physical strength
and courage, and their possessions, and enrolls each in his proper
place in the lot<note place='foot'>Probably the lands belonging to
the sect.</note> of the camp (13 11 ff.). From the following
badly defaced lines so much at least can be made out, that the
Supervisor had extensive powers of control over the dealings of
members of the sect with outsiders in the way of trade. He evidently
had also a leading part in the administration of justice
and the enforcement of the discipline of the sect, but the state
of the text here denies us insight into the particulars.
</p>

<p>
Courts were constituted of ten members,<note place='foot'>That a
court must consist of ten judges, the Karaites deduce from Ruth
4 2. So Anan quoted by Poznanski, Revue des études juives, vol. xlv, p. 67,
and p. 69, n. 1.</note> chosen <hi rend='italic'>ad hoc</hi> from
the congregation, four of the tribe of Levi and Aaron and six
Israelites, all well versed in the Book of Institutes and in the
Foundations of the Covenant, between twenty-five and sixty
years of age. No man of more than sixty shall be a judge, <q>for
on account of the unfaithfulness of mankind his days were shortened,
and through the wrath of God on the inhabitants of the
earth he bade to remove their understanding before they completed
their days (10 4 ff.).</q> The rules relating to the competence of
witnesses are strict. No one may testify against the accused
in a capital case who is not a god-fearing man old enough to be
included in the census (that is, at least twenty years of age, Exod.
30 14); nor shall a man's testimony be credited against his neighbor
who is himself a wilful transgressor of any of the commandments,
until he has come to repentance (9 23-10 3). A peculiar
provision is made for the case that a single witness (on whose
testimony therefore conviction could not be had) sees a capital
offence committed. He is to make known the facts to the Supervisor,
who records the testimony in writing. If subsequently
the offence is committed again in the presence of another witness,
the same process is repeated; on a second repetition, the testimony
of the three single witnesses combined suffices for conviction
(9 16 ff.).<note place='foot'>This seems to be the
meaning of the somewhat obscure passage.</note>
</p>

<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>

<p>
Besides the penalties of the Mosaic law, the sect has a formidable
means of discipline in expulsion, or as it is called <q>separation
from the Purity,</q> which may in some cases be inflicted even
on the testimony of one witness (9 21 ff.). Josephus vividly
depicts the desperate straits into which those came who, for
grave offences, were expelled from the Essene order; being unable
to eat food not prepared by members of the order, they were
exposed to starvation. This particular consequence would not
follow separation from our sect; but the lot of the excommunicated
man was evidently hard enough. <q>When his deeds come
to light he is to be expelled from the congregation, as though
his lot had never fallen in the midst of the disciples of God; according
to his misdeeds men shall bear him in remembrance ... until
the day when he returns to take his place in the station
of the men of perfect holiness. No man shall have any dealings
with him in matters of property or work, for all the saints of the
Most High have cursed him</q> (20 3 ff.); such have no part in
the <q>house of the law</q>; their names are erased from the rolls
of the congregation (20 10 f.). They are not only cut off from
the communion of saints in this world, but are doomed to extermination
by the hand of Belial (8 1 f., 19 14 f.). One who leads
men astray and profanes the Sabbath and the festivals shall not
be put to death, but shall be committed to the custody of men;<note place='foot'>It
is not clear whether imprisonment or surveillance is meant.</note>
if he is cured of his error, they shall keep him for seven years,
and afterwards he may come into the assembly (12 3 ff.). A
member of the sect who seduces others to apostasy is more severely
dealt with: <q>A man over whom the spirits of Belial have rule,<note place='foot'>On
the spirit of Belial (ruling over Israel) see Jubilees 1 20.</note>
and who advocates defection (Deut. 13 6), shall be judged according
to the law of the necromancer and the wizard</q> (12 2 f.; cf.
Deut. 18 9).<note place='foot'><q>Rebellion is as the
sin of witchcraft,</q> 1 Sam. 15 23.</note>
</p>

<p>
The sect possessed the Jewish Scriptures. The books of the
law are <q>the hut of the King</q> (i.e. the congregation)&mdash;the fallen
hut which God had promised to raise up; <q>the pillar of your
images</q> are the books of the prophets, whose words Israel despised.
The founder of the sect, the star out of Jacob, is the
<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>
interpreter of the law who came to Damascus (7 14 ff.). The
authority of the Pentateuch is appealed to in support of the position
of the sect in the matter of marriage and divorce; their
peculiar statutes and ordinances are the true interpretation and
application of the law of God. The prophets are frequently
cited, and allusions to passages in the prophets or reminiscences
of their phraseology are much more numerous. There are similar
reminiscences of the Psalms and of the Proverbs, and perhaps of
other books among the Hagiographa. As regards the Old Testament
scriptures, therefore, the sect stood on common ground
with Palestinian orthodoxy.<note place='foot'>In contrast to the
Samaritans.</note> The formula of citation is peculiar;
a quotation is usually introduced by the words <q>as he said,</q>
rarely <q>as God said</q>; or with the name of the sacred author,
<q>as Moses said.</q> Besides the Biblical books, we have a quotation
from Levi&mdash;probably the Testament of that Patriarch&mdash;introduced
by the same phrase as quotations from the Bible;
and the reader is referred to the Book of Jubilees by name for an
exact computation of the last times. There is nothing to indicate
that the authority attributed to these writings was inferior to
that of the Hagiographa. The canon of the <q>Scriptures</q> was
not defined, even in the rabbinical schools, until the second century
of our era, and in the sects many books enjoyed high esteem
which the orthodox repudiated.<note place='foot'>In 8 18 ff.,
after saying, <q>Such will be the judgment of every one who
despises the commandments of God, and he forsook them and they turned away
in the stubbornness of their heart,</q> A adds: <q>This is the word which Jeremiah
spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah and Elisha to his servant Gehazi,</q> referring
probably to otherwise unknown apocryphal books. Johanneh and his brother,
whom Belial raised up against Moses, are familiar figures of Jewish legend.</note>
</p>

<p>
To a different class belong, apparently, the Book of Institutes,
and the Foundations of the Covenant, in which the judges must
be well versed. To every religious gathering of ten men or more
belongs a priest well versed in the Book of Institutes. The title
Foundations of the Covenant suggests a writing (or a fixed tradition)
dealing with the obligations and duties of members of the
sect. The name here rendered Book of Institutes, on the other
hand, is obscure,<note place='foot'>The simplest explanation
of the form would be to take it as an abstract
noun of the type <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>fa`l</foreign>,
like <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>sáḥu</foreign>; <q>swimming</q> or
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>fi`l, fu`l,</foreign> like
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>séku</foreign> (n. pr.),
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>tóhu</foreign>,
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>bóhu</foreign>, etc., from
the verb <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>hagah</foreign> (root
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>hagw</foreign>),
<q>reflect, give thought to something,</q> also <q>read</q> (aloud), so
that the noun might literally mean <q>study,</q> equivalent to
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>midrash</foreign>, or perhaps
<q>reading.</q>&mdash;If the opinion which connects the sect with the
Dositheans were tenable (see below, p. <ref target='Pg360'>360</ref>
ff.), another explanation of the name
might be suggested by a passage in Abul-Fath's account of the origin of the Dositheans.
He narrates that a son of the Samaritan high priest, named Zar'ah, a
man preëminent for learning in his time, having been expelled from the community
for immorality, betook himself to Dositheus, who made him the chief of his
sect. This man <q>wrote a book in which he vituperated all the Samaritan religious
heads and set forth heresies.</q> The words are,
<foreign rend='italic'>haja fīhī kul al' a'immetin wa'abda'a
fīhī</foreign>. Inasmuch as the Arabic <foreign rend='italic'>hajwun</foreign>
formally corresponds to the Hebrew
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>hagu</foreign>, the Book of
<foreign rend='italic'>Hagu</foreign> in our texts might be identified with this
controversial writing of Zar'ah, the disciple of Dositheus. The Hebrew verb
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>hagah</foreign> is thought
by Kohut (Aruch Completum, III, 177) to occur in Echa Rabbathi on Lam.
1 4 and 3 33 in the sense <q>contemn, deride,</q> equivalent to the Arabic
<foreign rend='italic'>haja</foreign>, <q>lampoon,
vituperate.</q> It might then be conjectured that Abul-Fath had heard of
a Dosithean book of <hi rend='italic'>hagu</hi> (in Hebrew) and,
taking the word in its Arabic meaning,
evolved his description of the character of the work from this etymology.</note>
but the fact that a knowledge of it is demanded
<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>
of the priest and of the judges makes it likely that it contained
the <q>statutes and ordinances</q> of the sect, its peculiar definitions
and interpretations of the law, often referred to as
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>perush</foreign>;
in technical phrase, a collection of sectarian
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>halakoth</foreign>, such as is
preserved in the second part of the texts before us, which seems
to be derived from such a legal manual. The objection to committing
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>halakah</foreign>
to writing which was long maintained in the
rabbinical schools was not shared by the sects, and would be
least likely to exist where the ordinances were not in theory a
traditional law handed down from remote antiquity, but were
attributed to an individual interpreter, the founder of the
sect.
</p>

<p>
The sect had houses of worship, which a man in a state of
uncleanness is forbidden to enter (11 22),<note place='foot'>Some
Karaite authorities, also, transferring to the synagogue the holiness
of the temple, forbade a man in a state of uncleanness to enter the inner room
of the synagogue (Nissi; see Winter und Wünsche, Die jüdische Litteratur, vol.
ii, p. 74).</note> but nothing more is
said about them, except that when the trumpets of the congregation
are blown, the blowing shall follow or precede the service,
and not interrupt it. It is a natural surmise that they answered
to the synagogues both as places of worship and of religious
instruction, such, for example, as the Supervisor is required to
give. The name, <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>Beth hishtahawōth</foreign>,
literally, <q>house of bowing
<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>
down</q> (in worship), is peculiar, and may have been chosen to
distinguish these sectarian conventicles from the synagogues
of regular Judaism, as the English nonconformists of various
stripes would not call their meeting-houses churches. It is possible
that the prayers of the sect may have been accompanied
by genuflections and prostrations such as, though unknown in
the synagogue, have formed in all ages and religions a common
feature of Oriental worship; but it is also possible that <q>bowing
down</q> simply stands by metonymy for worship, as is often the
case with the corresponding Syriac verb,
<foreign rend='italic'>segad</foreign>.<note place='foot'>The coincidence
of the name with the Arabic <foreign rend='italic'>masjid</foreign>, <q>place of bowing
down,</q> mosque, is hardly a sufficient reason for suspecting Moslem influence, as
Dr. Schechter does, who thinks it possible that the word was introduced by a
later (Falasha?) scribe as a substitute for the original term.&mdash;Elia Bashiatzi
(Adereth Eliahu, p. 58), a Karaite writer of the 15th century, gives
<foreign rend='italic'>Beth hishtaḥawīya,</foreign>
together with <foreign rend='italic'>Beth hakeneseth</foreign> and
<foreign rend='italic'>Beth hamidrash</foreign>, as the three names
of the place of worship. Moslem influence can here hardly be questioned; in
a later chapter Elia describes the postures of prayer quite after the Moslem pattern,
alleging Biblical authority for all of them.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sacrificial worship was also maintained.<note place='foot'>The opinion
that after Josiah's reform, or after the restoration of the temple
by Zerubbabel and Joshua, Jerusalem was the only place where Jewish sacrifices
were offered is refuted by an accumulating volume of evidence from various
regions. See D. S. Margoliouth, Expositor, 1911, pp. 40 ff.</note> The City of the
Sanctuary was eminently holy; sexual intercourse within its
limits is forbidden, <q>defiling the City of the Sanctuary with their impurity</q>
(<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>beniddatham</foreign>).<note place='foot'>Cf. the
accusation against the orthodox Jews (5 6): <q>They defile the Sanctuary
in that they do not separate according to the law,</q> etc.&mdash;It is possible that
the prohibition quoted above applied, not to the inhabitants of the city, but to
persons who visited it for the purpose of worship, as is the rule for pilgrims to
Mecca.</note> To this city, probably, the sacrifices
were brought to which there is frequent reference. <q>No one shall
send to the altar burnt offerings or oblation, frankincense or wood,
by a man who is unclean with any of the forms of uncleanness;
for it is written, the sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination, but
the prayer of the righteous is an acceptable oblation</q> (11 18 ff.).
On the Sabbath nothing is to be brought upon the altar except
the Sabbath burnt offerings&mdash;that is, we may suppose, the stated
daily burnt offerings with the supplementary Sabbath victims
(13 17 f.; see Num. 28 1-10). Votive sacrifices are also mentioned;
<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>
it is forbidden to vow to the altar anything that has been
procured by compulsion; the priest shall refuse to receive such
offerings (16 13 f.). There is nothing to indicate where this
sanctuary was situated, further than the natural presumption
that it was in the region of Damascus, where the sect had established
itself. The priests have the precedence of all others in
the community; in its registers their names are enrolled in the
first rank. Their place in the courts and in the local religious
community, and their duties in the examination of lepers, have
already been mentioned. Those who officiated at the sanctuary
had doubtless their legal toll from private sacrifices of every kind.
Lost property for which no owner appears falls to the priests; a
man who has appropriated such property shall confess to the
priest, and all that he pays in restitution belongs to the priest,
besides the ram of the trespass offering (9 13 ff.).
</p>

<p>
A charitable fund is provided by monthly payment of certain
dues by members of the community to the Supervisor. From
this fund relief is given by the judges to the poor and needy, to
the aged, to the wanderer (?), to such as have fallen into captivity
to foreigners, and others (14 12 ff.).
</p>

<p>
The religious conceptions and beliefs of the sect present little
that is peculiar. For God the name <foreign rend='italic'>El</foreign>
is consistently used, without
any epithets. <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>Adonai</foreign>
is mentioned only to forbid its use
in oaths. The only other name which occurs is the Most High
(once, in the phrase <q>the saints of the Most High,</q> that is, the
members of the sect). There is repeated reference to the holy
spirit: God, through his Anointed, made men know his holy
spirit (2 12); the opponents of the sect, by blasphemous speech
against the statutes of God's covenant, defiled their holy spirit
(5 11);<note place='foot'>The holy spirit in
them. Dr. Schechter adduces parallels in Jewish writings.
Cf. Jubilees 1 21, 23, <q>Create in them a clean heart and a holy spirit.</q></note>
its members are warned not to defile his holy spirit
by failing to observe the distinctions of clean and unclean which
God has ordained (7 3 f.).
</p>

<p>
The <q>Prince of Lights (<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>Urim</foreign>),</q>
through whom Moses and
Aaron arise, is perhaps, as the contrast to Belial suggests, one
of the highest angels.<note place='foot'>Dr. Schechter conjectures
that the author wrote <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>Sar ha-Panim</foreign>, the Prince
of the Presence, but the passages from Jubilees which he quotes in support of this
opinion are hardly convincing.</note> The destroying angels execute God's
<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>
inescapable judgment on those who turned out of the way and
despised the statute (2 6). The fall of the Watchers, which is
a favorite subject in the apocalyptic literature, is referred to in
2 18. The chief of the evil spirits is Belial: he is <q>let loose</q>
during the whole of the present dispensation; he lays snares
for men and entraps them, especially in the three sins of fornication,
unrighteous gain, and the defilement of the sanctuary
(4 15 ff.); his spirits rule over men and lead them to apostasy
(12 2 f.); he also exterminates the faithless in the day of God's
visitation (8 1 f.). Another name for the devil is Mastema
(the commoner name in Jubilees), equivalent to Satan, <q>the
adversary.</q> The angel of Mastema ceases to follow a man
who resolves to return to the law of Moses (16 4 f.). According
to Jubilees 10 8 f., 11 5, Mastema had permission from
God to employ some of his evil spirits to corrupt men and lead
them astray.
</p>

<p>
Concerning the future life we read only that those who hold
firmly to the law are <q>for eternal life,</q><note place='foot'>See
Slavonic Enoch 42 5; cf. 9.</note> or, as it is elsewhere
expressed, <q>have the assurance that they shall live a thousand
generations.</q> To a punishment of the wicked after death<note place='foot'>So
far as may be argued from silence, this is an important difference
from Jubilees.</note> or
to a resurrection of the dead there is no allusion whatever.
</p>

<p>
The moral teachings of the sect have been frequently touched
upon above in speaking of their rules of life. Man is led into
sin not only by the snares of Belial, but by his own sinful inclination
and adulterous eyes (2 16; seemingly the
<foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>yeṣer hara'</foreign> of
the rabbis). It was through these that the Watchers fell; by
them the generation of the flood sinned, and the sons of Jacob,
and their descendants in Egypt and in Canaan, and brought
judgment upon themselves (2 14 ff.). We have seen that the
sect insisted upon monogamy, and perhaps rejected divorce
altogether. Particular emphasis is laid in several places on the
commandments, <q>thou shalt not take vengeance nor bear any
grudge against the children of thy people,</q> <q>thou shalt reprove
thy neighbor and not bear sin because of him</q> (Lev. 19 17, 18).<note place='foot'>See
7 2; cf. Slavonic Enoch 50 4: <q>When you might have vengeance, do
not repay either your neighbor or your enemy. For God will repay as your
avenger in the day of the great judgment. Let it not be for you to take vengeance.</q>
(ed. Charles, p. 67); cf. Ecclus. 28 1.</note>
<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>
Thus, at the beginning of the legal part of the book, the delivery
of a fellow Israelite to the gentiles so that he is condemned
by their law is said to fall under this prohibition, and further,
<q>any man of those who enter into the covenant who brings up
against his neighbor a matter not in the nature of a reproof before
witnesses, but which he brings up in anger, or tells it to his elders
to bring the man into disrepute, he is one that takes vengeance
and bears a grudge.</q> It is forbidden also to exact of another an
oath except in the presence of the judges; he who does so transgresses
the law which forbids a man to take justice into his own
hands. Every one who enters into the covenant pledges himself
not only not to rob the poor and make widows his spoil, but
to love his neighbor as himself, to seek the welfare of his fellow,
and to sustain the poor and needy. As regards the relations of
the members of the sect to gentiles, it is forbidden to shed the
blood of a gentile or to take aught of their property, <q>in order
to give them no occasion to blaspheme</q> (12 6 f.), that is, to prevent
the profaning of God's name (15 3), a motive frequently
urged in similar connection in the rabbinical writings. On the
other hand, no man may sell to gentiles clean animals or birds,
lest they offer them in sacrifice, nor grain, nor wine&mdash;naught of
his possessions; nor shall he sell to them his slave or maid servant
who have come with him into the covenant of Abraham
(12 9 ff.), He may not pass the Sabbath in the neighborhood
of gentiles. They are unclean, and garments they may have
handled require purification.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
No record of a schismatic body such as reveals itself in our
texts is preserved in the early catalogues of Jewish heresies, nor
have references to it been discovered in rabbinical sources. Like
many sects, it exhibits the separatist inclination to outdo the orthodox
in zeal for the letter and in strenuousness of practice, and
it is not surprising that its interpretations of the law frequently
agree with those of other strict-constructionists, such as Samaritans,
Sadducees, Karaites; but these coincidences illustrate a
common tendency rather than prove historical connection. The
<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>
relation to the Book of Jubilees is, however, such as to show that
there was some affinity between our sect and the circles in which
that work originated. Jubilees is cited as authority on the last
times; its calendar probably contains the secrets of God's holy
sabbaths and glorious festivals about which all Israel was in
error; the rules for the observance of the Sabbath in our book
accord in many particulars with the injunctions in Jubilees 50 6 ff.
(see also 2 26 ff.); and various other resemblances might be
pointed out, such as the preference for the unornamented word
God (in Jubilees, God, or the Lord), in contrast with the many
mouth-filling periphrases in Enoch; the holy spirit in men; the
name Mastema for the adversary instead of Satan; Belial who
ensnares men, and the spirits of Belial which rule over sinners,
besides others to which Dr. Schechter directs attention in his
notes. The relation to the Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs
is less clear. The saying attributed to Levi (4 15) is not found
in the Testament, and the other resemblances Dr. Schechter has
noted are vague or belong to the commonplaces. The place of
honor given to Judah in the Testaments, as we have them, is
strikingly at variance with the attitude of our sect toward that
tribe and its princes. The Levite Messiah of the Testaments
is not precisely the same as the <q>Anointed from Aaron and
Israel</q> in our book. In Jubilees also there are salient features,
such as the more developed angelology and the form of the Messianic
expectation, which hardly permit us to suppose that the
book was a product of our sect, however highly it may have been
esteemed by it.
</p>

<p>
The sect gives especial honor to the sons of Zadok, the ancient
priesthood of the temple in Jerusalem (Ezek. 44 15, 2 Chron.
31 10, Sirach 51 12 Heb.); they are the chosen ones of Israel,
men designated by name, who arose in the latter times (4 3);
it was Zadok who brought to light the Book of the Law which
no one had seen since the death of Eleazar and Joshua (5 5).
The context of the latter passage would suggest that Zadok the
contemporary of David is meant, who after the deposition of
Abiathar became Solomon's chief priest.<note place='foot'>That Zadok was
the name of the <q>interpreter of the law,</q> the founder
of the sect, is a much less probable opinion; the name stands in no connection
with the origin of the sect or its legislation, but with the bringing to light again
of the Pentateuch. The author cannot have supposed that the <emph>written</emph> law
remained unknown till the second century <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>;
the reforms of Josiah, based on
another recovery of the book by Hilkiah, would preclude such a notion.</note>
The precedence given
<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>
to the sons of Zadok may possibly have a side reference to the
illegitimate high priests of Seleucid creation, such as Menelaus,
though, if this were the intention, we should expect it to be
emphasized.
</p>

<p>
The passages quoted are the only places in the book in which
the name Zadok or the sons of Zadok appear, and they are certainly
a very slender reason for describing the body which produced
the book as a <q>Zadokite</q> sect, whatever meaning may
be attached to the term. On the contrary, one of the outstanding
things in the constitution of the sect is the predominance of
the lay element. The Supervisor is a layman; laymen form the
majority in every court; the Messiah is the <q>Anointed from
Aaron <emph>and Israel</emph>.</q> Whether the external testimony upon which
Dr. Schechter relies for justification of the name is more adequate
will be considered below.
</p>

<p>
Zadok and the sons of Zadok suggest the Sadducees,<note place='foot'>The
coincidence of names does not count for very much. Abul-Fath names
two Samaritan <q>Zadokite</q> subsects among the later Dositheans alone.</note> whose
name, according to the most probable explanation, designates
them as descendants (or followers and partisans) of Zadok. Here
again it is a question whether Zadok of David's time is meant,
so that the Sadducees were the Zadokite aristocracy of the priesthood,
as most modern scholars think, or whether the name of
the Sadducee sect is derived from a heresiarch of much later
times, as the Jewish legend represents which makes Zadok, from
whom the sect descends, a recalcitrant disciple of Antigonus of
Socho, about the middle of the second century <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>,
contemporary, if we rightly interpret our texts, with the origin of the sect
we are studying.
</p>

<p>
With the Sadducees, as we know them from the New Testament,
Josephus, and rabbinical sources, our sect cannot well be
identified. There is, however, a sect sometimes associated with
the Sadducees, namely, the Dositheans, in whose teachings and
customs Dr. Schechter finds such resemblances as lead him to
surmise that the Dositheans were an offshoot of our sect. The
<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>
accounts of the Dositheans in writers of different ages and religious
connections, from Origen and Epiphanius down to the
Samaritan Chronicler Abul-Fath and the Moslem heresiographer
Shahrastani, are notoriously confused and contradictory,<note place='foot'>See
Hilgenfeld, Die Ketzergeschichte des Urchristenthums, 1884, pp. 155 ff.;
Montgomery, The Samaritans, 1907, pp. 252 ff.</note> so that
many scholars have felt constrained to conclude that there was
more than one sect of the name. The Fathers generally agree in
describing the Dositheans as a Samaritan heresy, though Epiphanius
and Philaster have it that the author of the heresy was
by extraction a Jew. They frequently bring him into connection
with Simon Magus, in the time of the Apostles. According
to Origen, he gave himself out for the Messiah foretold by Moses;
his followers had books of his, and legends pretending that he
had not died, but was still alive somewhere. Other Fathers give
no date for the rise of the heresy, but by coupling it with the
Sadducees seem to imply that it was older than Christianity;
thus (Pseudo)Tertullian (probably after Hippolytus)<note place='foot'>See
also Epiphanius; the Sadducees were an offshoot from Dositheus.</note> says that
Dositheus the Samaritan was the first to reject the prophets as
not inspired; the Sadducees, springing from this root of error,
ventured to deny the resurrection also. From this Philaster
probably drew the inference that Zadok, the founder of the
Sadducees, was a disciple of Dositheus. The Samaritan and
Moslem authors agree with the Fathers in treating the Dositheans
as a Samaritan sect. Abul-Fath, a Samaritan writer of the fourteenth
century, puts the beginnings of the sect in the first century
<hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>, at the time when the yoke of the Jews had been broken by
the kings of the gentiles, and the Samaritans were able to return
and restore their sanctuary, which had been destroyed by Simon
and John Hyrcanus.<note place='foot'>Not in the time
of Alexander the Great, as Dr. Schechter has from Montgomery.
Abul-Fath, indeed (and Adler's Chronicle after him), introduces this
whole story before Alexander, and makes Simon a protégé of Darius; but the
testimony that Dositheus appeared after the time of Hyrcanus, which, as a matter
of Samaritan history, may be conceived to rest on tradition, is not to be set aside
because, in fitting his Samaritan traditions into the framework of universal history,
Abul-Fath is in error by two or three centuries about the date of Hyrcanus. This
used to be understood; see, e.g., De Sacy, Chrestomathie arabe, vol. ii (1806),
p. 209.</note> The Moslem writer Shahrastani, in his
<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>
learned work on Religious Sects and Philosophical Schools (first
half of the twelfth century), gives substantially the same date:
the founder of the Dositheans, who professed to be the prophet
foretold by Moses, the star spoken of in the law, appeared about
a century before Christ.
</p>

<p>
In this state of the evidence it is obvious that no argument can
be based on the coincidence in time between the origin of the
Dositheans and that of our sect. When the Fathers bring the
names of Dositheus and Zadok into conjunction, it means no
more than that they attributed certain errors to both Dositheans
and Sadducees; just as the Talmudic legend which makes Zadok
and Boëthus apostate disciples of Antigonus of Socho is but a
mythological way of saying that Sadducees and Boëthusians
were addicted to the same heresies concerning retribution, or as
the coupling of Dositheus and Simon Magus means that both
passed for Samaritan arch-heretics.
</p>

<p>
The first point of agreement between the Dositheans and our
sect which Dr. Schechter notes is in the calendar. Abul-Fath
says that the Dositheans did away with the computation of the
almanac (tables of lunar conjunctions), making all their months
exactly thirty days long, and (thus) annulled the correct festivals and the ordinance
of the fasts and the affliction (Day of Atonement).<note place='foot'>Epiphanius avers,
on the contrary, that the Dositheans kept their festivals
at the same time with the Jews.</note>
The circle of thirty disciples, who, with a woman called
Helena (Moon), formed the train of Dositheus, according to
the Clementine Recognitions (ii, 8) symbolized the days of the
month. If our sect employed the calendar of the Book of Jubilees,
as seems highly probable, they also had thirty-day months;
but it would not follow that the system was original with them,
nor that the Dositheans must have adopted it from them. There
were, in fact, from very remote times, two years in use within
the area of the ancient civilizations, a lunar-solar year, consisting
of twelve lunar months of twenty-nine or thirty days each,
with a thirteenth month added every two or three years to maintain
approximate agreement with the solar year and make the
months fall in the same seasons, and a solar year of three hundred
and sixty-five days, divided into twelve months of thirty
<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>
days each without regard to the lunations, and five extra days
(<foreign rend='italic'>epagomenae</foreign>). The former was the system of the
Babylonians and the Greeks, as well as the Jews; the latter was in use in Egypt
from immemorial times until the Roman reforms. From the
Egyptians it was borrowed by the Abyssinians; it was employed
also for some centuries before and after the Christian era in the
calendars of Gaza and Ashkelon. The Persians had the same
system; the Yashts contain a liturgy for the thirty regents of
the days of the month, the five extra days being assigned to the
divine Gathas. Probably under Persian influences, this calendar
was established in Armenia, Cappadocia, and other parts of Asia
Minor.<note place='foot'>See Ideler, Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen
Chronologie, vol. i, pp. 437 ff., 517; Ginzel, Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen
Chronologie, vol. i, pp. 170 f., 287. On the calendar of Gaza, Schürer, Geschichte
des jüdischen Volkes (3 ed.), vol. ii, pp. 88 f.</note>
</p>

<p>
Jews and Samaritans not only lived in many of the lands of
their dispersion among peoples who used the thirty-day month,
but encountered this calendar in commercial centres on the very
borders of Palestine with which they had close relations. The
advantages of a system in which the festivals came on fixed dates,
instead of shifting within wide limits, as they must in the lunar-solar
year with its irregular intercalation, are obvious,<note place='foot'>We
have experience of the inconvenience of this system in the wandering
of Easter and the Christian festivals dependent on it; a reform by which Easter
should come on a fixed date in the solar year has repeatedly been proposed, and
a movement is now on foot in Europe to bring this about by agreement of governments
and churches.</note> and an
attempt to reform the Jewish calendar accordingly may have
been made more than once and in more than one region. The
peculiarity of the system of the Book of Jubilees is not the uniform
length of the months, but the admission of only <emph>four</emph> extra days,
thus making an even fifty-two weeks (364 days), which was of
more concern to the author than the increased error of a whole
day in the solar year.<note place='foot'>The year of
364-days is found also in Enoch 72-82, and (by the side of the
true solar year of 365-¼ and the lunar year of 354 days) in the Slavonic Enoch.
The intercalary days are introduced one at the beginning of each quarter of the
year (Enoch 75 1); this is also the method in Jubilees; see 6 23. In effect this
is equivalent to a year in which eight months have thirty days and four&mdash;those
in which the equinoxes and solstices fall&mdash;have thirty-one (Enoch 72 13, 19).
It is not impossible that this system is implied in the chronology of the flood in
Genesis; see B. W. Bacon, Hebraica, vol. viii (1891-1892), pp. 79-88, 124-139;
Charles, Jubilees, p. 56.</note> We do not know whether the Dositheans
<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>
of Abul-Fath and the Sadducees of Kirkisani (of whom later)
agreed in this point with Jubilees, or counted <emph>five</emph> extra days like
the rest of the world. The former may be thought probable,
but it cannot be assumed as certain. The year of 365 days is
also found in the Greek Apocalypse of Baruch, c. 6.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Schechter quotes Epiphanius<note place='foot'>This is
not the place to discuss the value of Epiphanius's testimony. His
description of the Scribes and Pharisees at least admonishes to caution.</note>
on the Dositheans as saying,
<q>some of them abstain from a second marriage, but others never
marry</q>; and, although <q>the text is not quite certain on this
point,</q><note place='foot'>The text is certain enough, in the sense that all the
manuscripts hitherto collated have the same reading.</note>
is inclined to perceive in the statement <q>at least an echo
of the law of our sect prohibiting a second marriage as long as
the first wife is alive.</q> The passage in Epiphanius is more than
obscure, and the text is for that reason suspected. The passage
runs: Ἐμψύχων ἀπέχονται, ἀλλὰ καί τινες αὐτῶν ἐγκρατεύονται ἀπὸ
γάμων μετὰ τοῦ βιῶσαι, ἄλλοι δὲ καὶ παρθενεύουσιν. Whatever
this may mean, it certainly is not, <q>some of them abstain
from marriage after the death of their first wives,</q> nor does anything
in the context justify the large changes in the text which
would be required to force this sense upon it. Casaubon's conjecture
υἱῶσαι has nothing to commend it. The simplest solution
of the difficulty would be to write συμβιῶσαι,<note place='foot'>Nicetas,
in reproducing Epiphanius's account of the Dositheans, has τεκνῶσαι,
<q>after having begotten children,</q> which also agrees very well with the
context.</note> <q>some of them
refrain from marital relations after having lived together, others
preserve their virginity.</q> Whether this emendation is right or
not, it is clear that Epiphanius describes his Dositheans as a kind
of Encratite ascetics, while the prohibition of polygamy&mdash;whether
contemporaneous or consecutive&mdash;by our sect has a totally different
ground; of asceticism there is, indeed, no symptom in its
ordinances.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Schechter thinks that the statement of Epiphanius quoted
<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>
above that the Dositheans <q>abstain from eating living creatures</q>
<q>may have some connection with the law in our text on p. 12, l.
11, which may perhaps be understood to imply that the sect forbade
honey, regarding it as <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>'eber min haḥai</foreign>
(a limb cut off from
a living animal), which would agree with the testimony of Abul-Fath
that they forbade the eating of eggs, except those which
were found in a slaughtered fowl.</q> Ἐμψύχων ἀπέχονται does not
mean <q>abstain from eating living creatures,</q> but <q>abstain from
animal food,</q><note place='foot'>The familiar
title of Porphyry's book on vegetarianism, Περὶ ἀποχῆς
ἐμψύχων, will occur to every one. Epiphanius himself explains the word in
Haer. 18, 1, <q>they (Nasaraei) thought it unlawful to eat meat.</q></note>
while our sect certainly did not include vegetarianism
among its eccentricities, any more than the depreciation
of marriage.
</p>

<p>
Several authors describe the Dositheans as extravagant sabbatarians.
Origen reports that their rule was, that in whatever
place and in whatever posture the Sabbath found a man, there
and thus he was to remain till its end. Abul-Fath gives a longer
account of their Sabbath laws, which are much stricter than those
of our texts. It was forbidden, for example, to feed domestic
animals or give them drink on the Sabbath, they were to be provided
on Friday with enough provender and water to last them
through the Sabbath. Extreme sabbatarianism is, however, a
sectarian propensity which does not have to be borrowed.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Schechter quotes Epiphanius further as saying that the Dositheans
<q>have no intercourse with all people because they detest
all mankind,</q> in which he thinks <q>we may readily recognize here
the law of our Sect requiring the washing of the clothes when they
were brought by a Gentile (because of the contamination), and the
prohibition of staying over the Sabbath in the vicinity of Gentiles</q>
(Introduction, pp. xxiii f.). What Epiphanius says is that
the Dositheans agree with the rest of the Samaritans in the observance
of circumcision and the Sabbath, and in avoiding contact
with any one because they feel that all men (that is, all gentiles)
are unclean. He had already described the customs of all the
Samaritans: They wash themselves and their clothes in water
when they come in contact with a foreigner; for they regard it as
a defilement to come in contact with any one or even to touch
<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>
a man of another religion.<note place='foot'>Haer. 9, 3; cf.
30, 2: <q>The Ebionites, like the Samaritans, avoid touching
an outsider.</q> A still more extreme fastidiousness on this point is attributed by
Josephus to the Essenes; cf. B. J. ii, 8, 10.</note> It is, therefore, not a Dosithean
peculiarity, but the general Samaritan usage which Epiphanius
describes, and it is useless to search for remoter affinities.
</p>

<p>
The marked hostility to the patriarch Judah with which
Eulogius, the Patriarch of Alexandria (died 607 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>), charges
Dositheus<note place='foot'>Photius, Bibliotheca Codicum, cod. 280 (ed.
Bekker, p. 285).</note> is natural enough in a Samaritan heresiarch; in the
same sentence Eulogius accuses him of scorning the prophets of
God, which, again, is not peculiar to the Dositheans, but is the
general Samaritan position. It has been remarked above (p.
353) that our sect gives especial honor to the books of the prophets
<q>whose words Israel has despised</q>; and, however unfriendly the
attitude of these seceders to the degenerate Judah of their time,
there is no indication of animosity to the patriarch, as there is
none in the Jubilees.
</p>

<p>
From a much later time Dr. Schechter has gleaned some notices
of a sect of <q>Zadokites</q> in whose tenets also he recognizes resemblances
to those of our sect. Kirkisani, a Karaite author of the
tenth century,<note place='foot'>The Kitab al-Anwār was
published in 937, not 637, as by a misprint on
p. xviii.</note> says: <q>Zadok was the first who exposed the
Rabbanites and contradicted them publicly. He revealed a part
of the truth, and composed books [a book] in which he frequently
denounced the Rabbanites and criticised them. But he adduced
no proof for anything he said, merely saying it by way of statement,
except in one thing, namely, in his prohibition against
marrying the daughter of the brother and the daughter of the sister.
For he adduced as proof their being analogous to the paternal
and maternal aunt.</q><note place='foot'>Schechter's
translation, Introduction, p. xviii.</note>
</p>

<p>
This is a matter about which our sectaries are especially fierce
in their denunciations of the laxity of the orthodox. The argument
they employ is the same which Kirkisani attributes to
Zadok. It is, however, the obvious argument, if the principle of
analogy be admitted in the interpretation of the law; it is common
<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>
in the Karaite books, and is ascribed to the Samaritans
also.<note place='foot'>Schechter, p. xxxvii, n. 21.</note>
Kirkisani also says that the Zadokites absolutely forbade divorce,
which the Scripture permitted, agreeing in this with the Christians
and with the Isawites, whose founders, Jesus and Obadiah of
Ispahan,<note place='foot'>Founder of a
Jewish sect which arose in Persia about the end of the seventh
century.</note> had likewise forbidden it. We are not told expressly
that our sect prohibited divorce, but their prohibition of remarriage
during the life of the divorced wife would have the same
effect. Finally, Kirkisani says that the Zadokites fixed all the
months at thirty days each,<note place='foot'>On this point see above, p.
<ref target='Pg362'>362</ref>.</note> and that they did not count the
Sabbath among the seven days of the celebration of the Passover
and the Tabernacles, making the feast consist of seven days exclusive
of the Sabbath. Substantially the same statements are
made about the Zadokites by another Karaite author, Hadassi,
who flourished in the middle of the twelfth century, and perhaps
derived his information from Kirkisani.
</p>

<p>
What the <q>Zadokite</q> writings really were to which these
authors refer is not known. It is certain, however, that both
the Karaites and their opponents took them to be Sadducean
works. In the passage about Zadok, part of which Dr. Schechter
quotes (see above), Kirkisani says: <q>After the appearance of the
Rabbanites (the first of whom was Simeon the Just), the Sadducees
appeared; their leaders were Zadok and Boëthus.... Zadok
was the first who exposed the Rabbanites,</q> etc.<note place='foot'>Quoted
in the original by Poznanski, Revue des études juives, vol. xliv
(1902). p. 162, n. 2.</note> Zadok's disclosure
of a part of truth was followed by the full discovery of
the truth about the laws by Anan, the founder of the Karaites.
Not only do the opponents of the Karaites stigmatize Anan and
his followers as the remnants of the disciples of Zadok and
Boëthus, but the older Karaites expressly claim this origin. Thus
Joseph al-Baṣir (first half of the eleventh century) says that, in
the times of the second temple, the Rabbanites, who were then
called Pharisees, had the upper hand, while the Karaites, then
known as Sadducees, were less influential.<note place='foot'>Quoted
by Poznanski, l. c., p. 170.</note> The Karaite author
<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>
of an anonymous commentary on Exodus preserved in manuscript
in St. Petersburg<note place='foot'>Harkavy attributed
it conjecturally to Sahl ben Masliah; Poznanski,
whom Dr. Schechter follows, thinks it more likely that the author was Hasan
ben Mashiah.</note> polemizes against a disciple of Saadia,
the great <hi rend='italic'>Malleus Karaeorum</hi>, about the proper way of determining
the beginning of the months (and consequently the dates of
the feasts), which the Rabbanites fixed by calculation of the
conjunctions, while the Karaites depended on observation of
the visible new moon. The ancients, he says, required evidence
of the appearance of the new moon.<note place='foot'>As the
Karaites do. See e.g. Mishna, Rosh ha-Shana, 1 7 ff., 2 1 f.</note>
Saadia, who mistakenly
assumed that the beginning of the month had been determined
astronomically from remote antiquity&mdash;the calendar was, in fact,
of Sinaitic origin<note place='foot'>See Poznanski,
Jewish Quarterly Review, vol. x (1898), pp. 159, 248, 273.</note>&mdash;asserted
that the taking of testimony about
the appearance of the moon was an innovation occasioned by
the contention of Zadok and Boëthus that the law required the
beginning of the month to be determined by actual observation;
witnesses were heard only to prove that observation confirmed
the calculation. To this the author replies: <q>The book of the
Zadokites (Sadducees) is well known, and there is no such thing
in it as that man (Saadia) avers. In the book of Zadok are various
things in which he dissents from the Rabbanites of the second
temple with regard to sacrifices and other matters, but there
is not a syllable of what the Fayyumite (Saadia) says.</q><note place='foot'>Quoted
in the original by Poznanski, Revue des études juives, vol. xliv,
p. 176.&mdash;The point is that the <q>Zadokite</q> writings known to the author said
nothing about fixing the beginning of the month by observation. Saadia doubtless
based his assertion, not on anything he found in <q>Zadokite</q> books, but on
Rosh ha-Shanah 22 a-b.</note> Saadia
himself appears not to have questioned the authenticity of the
writings that went under the name of Zadok, with which he seems
to have been acquainted, directly or indirectly, for in a passage
quoted by Yefet ben 'Ali he says that Zadok had proved from
the one hundred and fifty days in the story of the flood just the
opposite of what the Karaites try to prove from them.<note place='foot'>Poznanski,
l. c., p. 177; cf. also Jewish Quarterly Review, vol. x, pp. 246 ff.&mdash;Saadia
probably means that <q>Zadok</q> argued from the fact that the 150 days
of Gen. 7 24, 8 3, make an even five months (7 11, 8 4), that each month had thirty
days (cf. Jubilees 5 27), while for the Karaites thirty days was only the extreme
length of a lunar month. See Poznanski, Jewish Quarterly Review, vol. x, p.
241.</note>
</p>

<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>

<p>
Zadokite books thus meant, for all those from whom our information
comes, Sadducean books; and so, in the sense that, whatever
their age and origin, they contained substantially Sadducean
teachings, most modern scholars, also, have understood
the name.
</p>

<p>
The possibility that Sadducean writings from the beginning
of the Christian era had survived to the Middle Ages cannot well
be denied, especially in view of the preservation of the book of
the unknown sect that forms the subject of our present study
in copies as late as the tenth or eleventh century; and even if
the book which the Karaites took for Sadducean was erroneously
attributed to that sect, there is no sufficient ground for identifying
it with the texts in our hands or for ascribing it to our sect. A
thirty-day month, and the prohibition of divorce and of marriage
with a niece, are much too slender a foundation to support
so large an inference, and it is hardly legitimate to argue that if
we had the entire book, of which only a part&mdash;or, according to
Dr. Schechter, excerpts&mdash;is preserved, we might find other and
more significant agreements.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Schechter has also remarked certain coincidences between
the tenets of our sect and those of the Falashas, or Abyssinian
Jews, whom, with Beer, he is disposed to connect in some way
with the Dositheans. Their Sabbath laws resemble those in
the Jubilees and in the texts before us; they also prohibit marriage
with a niece; they have a tradition that the Pentateuch was
brought to Abyssinia by Azariah, the son of Zadok (1 Kings
4 2); certain features of their calendar may possibly be related to
that of the Zadokites as described by Kirkisani. Here, again,
the correspondences are not numerous or distinctive enough
to establish an historical connection.
</p>

<p>
Putting together these scattered indicia, Dr. Schechter arrives
at a theory of the history and relations of the sect which must
be given in his own words:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
We may, then, formulate our hypothesis that our text is constituted
of fragments forming extracts from a Zadok book, known to us chiefly
<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>
from the writings of Kirkisani. The Sect which it represented, did
not however pass for any length of time under the name of Zadokites,
but was soon in some way amalgamated with and perhaps also absorbed
by the Dosithean Sect, and made more proselytes among the Samaritans
than among the Jews, with which former sect it had many points of
similarity. In the course of time, however, the Dosithean Sect also
disappeared, and we have only some traces left of them in the lingering
sect of the Falashas, with whom they probably came into close contact
at an early period of their (the Falashas') existence, and to whom they
handed down a good many of their practices. The only real difficulty
in the way of this hypothesis is, that according to our Text the Sect had
its original seat in Damascus, north of Palestine, and it is difficult to
see how they reached the Dositheans, and subsequently the Falashas,
who had their main seats in the south of Palestine, or Egypt. But
this could be explained by assuming special missionary efforts on the
part of the Zadokites by sending their emissaries to Egypt, a country
which was especially favourable to such an enterprise because of the
existence of the Onias Temple there. The severance of the Egyptian
Jews from the Palestinian influence (though they did not entirely give
up their loyalty to the Jerusalem Sanctuary), prepared the ground for
the doctrines of such a Sect as the Zadokites in which all allegiance to
Judah and Jerusalem was rejected, and in which the descendants of the
House of Zadok (of whom indeed Onias himself was one) represented
both the Priest and the Messiah.
</quote>

<p>
The evidence adduced in support of this ingenious hypothesis
has already been examined in detail, and the results need only
be summarized here: There is nothing in the book before us to
warrant classing the men who made the new covenant in the
land of Damascus as a Zadokite sect;<note place='foot'>See above, p.
<ref target='Pg359'>359</ref> f.</note> neither the external
nor the internal evidence suffices to identify the work quoted by
Kirkisani as Zadokite (by which he and all the rest understood
Sadducean) with the book before us; the connection of the sect
with the Dositheans rests in great part on misunderstanding of
the testimonies about the Dositheans&mdash;misunderstandings, it
is fair to say, which are not all original with Dr. Schechter,&mdash;in
part upon points of resemblance which are not distinctive enough
to prove anything. Of the peculiar organization of our sect,
which would be conclusive, there is no trace anywhere.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A much more sensational hypothesis was broached by Mr. G.
Margoliouth in the <hi rend='italic'>Athenaeum</hi> for November 26, 1910, under
<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>
the title, <q>The Sadducean Christians of Damascus.</q> He takes
<q>the root</q> which God caused to spring from Israel and Aaron
(1 7) for the same person who is subsequently called the Anointed
one (Messiah), and distinguishes this figure from the Teacher of
Righteousness, also called the Anointed one, who appeared
twenty years later. <q>Both these Messiahs were dead when the
document was composed, but they were both expected to reappear
in the latter days.</q>
</p>

<p>
The first of them, the Messiah descended from Aaron and
Israel, in consequence of whose work <q>they meditated over their
sin, and knew that they were guilty men,</q> is John the Baptist.
John's father was a priest, and though his mother also is said to
have been of priestly descent, <q>this need not stand in the way
of believing that there was a strain of non-priestly Israelite
blood in the family.</q> The Sadducees would naturally prefer
a priestly Messiah to a Davidic one, and, when John won the
recognition of the people as a prophet sent by God, it would not
be strange if a priestly party acclaimed him as in some sense a
Messiah, or anointed leader of the nation.
</p>

<p>
The other Messiah, the Teacher of Righteousness, must then
be Jesus. That he appeared twenty years after John, so far
from being an argument against this identification, would relieve
the difficulty of trying to crowd John's whole history into little
more than a year. <q>It is surely not necessary to defend the
Lucan tradition on this point at all hazards, and it seems quite
likely that the newly discovered document has at last given us
the right perspective of events.</q>
</p>

<p>
If these identifications are correct, the <q>man of scoffing,</q> or
Belial,<note place='foot'>In <q>Belial is let
loose,</q> Mr. Margoliouth finds a witless pun on Paul's
apostolic claims.</note> who is sent to pervert the nation and turn it from the
law, can be no other than the Apostle Paul, and it is noted for
confirmation that <q>the period here assigned to his activity and
that of his immediate following is about forty years, a space of
time not far removed from the result of recent critical computation.</q>
</p>

<p>
The New Covenant so often referred to in the texts is clearly
to be connected with the identical conception and expression
<pb n='372'/><anchor id='Pg372'/>
in the New Testament, nor does it seem to be accidental that
the Teacher of Righteousness is several times spoken of as the
<q>only</q> or <q>unique</q> one.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Margoliouth presents his complete hypothesis as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
The natural and apparently inevitable conclusion of the whole matter,
therefore, is that we have here to deal with a primitive Judaeo-Christian
body of people which consisted of priests and Levites belonging to the
Boëthusian section of the Sadducean party,<note place='foot'>Mr. Margoliouth
is led to the opinion that they were Boëthusians by the
obscure passage in 2 13, which he interprets, <q>in the explanation of his name
(sc. the Messiah's) are also their names,</q>&mdash;the name of the sect points
mysteriously to the name of the Messiah. <q>Now the Boëthusians derived their name
from a priest named Boëthus, and the meaning of βοηθὸς is the same as that of
the Hebrew name represented by Jesus. The inference would be that the
section of the Zadokite or Sadducees who adopted an attitude of belief toward
John the Baptist and Jesus were none other than the Boëthusians (perhaps identical
with the great company of believing priests of Acts 6 7), who not unnaturally
liked to dwell on the identity of meaning between their names and that of
the Teacher.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Boëthos</hi>, it may be remarked, is probably a
Greek equivalent for the name Ezra, not for Jeshua.</note> fortified&mdash;as the document
shows&mdash;by a considerable Israelitish lay element, besides a real
or contemplated admixture of proselytes. They acknowledged, as we
have seen, John the Baptist, as a Messiah of the family of Aaron, and
they also believed in Jesus as a kind of second (or, perhaps, as pre-eminent)
Messiah whose special function it was to be a <q>Teacher of
Righteousness.</q> Paul they abhorred; and they strove with all their
might to combine the full observance of the Mosaic Law, as they understood
it, with the principles of the <q>new covenant,</q> again as they understood
it. On the destruction of the Temple by Titus, finding that it
would not serve any good purpose to linger in Judaea, they determined
to migrate to Damascus,<note place='foot'>Mr. Margoliouth
thinks that <q>the end of the destruction of the land,</q>
after which the migration to Damascus took place, <q>can hardly be anything else
than the completion of the Roman conquest in <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi> 70.</q>
<q>At the end of the
devastation of the land</q> means, however, not when the destruction was complete,
but when the period of desolation was over. The phrase itself, therefore, is no
more appropriate to Titus than to Nebuchadnezzar&mdash;or to Hadrian. Mr. Margoliouth
does not say how he interprets the rest of the passage. Are the men
who, at the end of the devastation of the land, <q>removed the boundary and led
Israel astray,</q> the great rabbis of the generations after the destruction of Jerusalem,
and does the sequel, <q>and the land was laid waste because they spoke
rebelliously against the commandments of God by Moses and against his holy
Anointed one,</q> refer to the war under Hadrian?</note> intending to establish their
central organization in that city, and to found communities of the sect in different parts
of the neighboring country. It was at this juncture that the manifesto,
<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>
bearing as it does unmistakable marks of personal touch, was composed
by a leader of the movement.
</quote>

<p>
No scholar who has made an independent study of the texts
published by Dr. Schechter can have failed to consider the question
whether these schismatics, with their <q>unique teacher,</q><note place='foot'>As
has been noted above, <foreign lang='he' rend='italic'>yāhīd</foreign>
is sometimes rendered in the Greek Old
Testament by μονογενής.</note>
their <q>new covenant,</q> their <q>Supervisor,</q> whose name and
functions might be compared with those of a bishop ἐπίσκοπος,
their loyalty to their dead leader, God's Anointed one (Messiah),
who made them know his holy spirit, and their expectation of
an Anointed one in the last times, their hostility to the Pharisees,
can have been a Jewish Christian sect.
</p>

<p>
The more closely the documents are examined, however, the
less tenable this conjecture appears. One feature of the sectarian
eschatology which, if established, would afford the most
striking coincidence with early Christian belief, namely, that the
Messiah who died in the early days of the sect is to <q>reappear</q>
(Margoliouth), or <q>rise again</q> (Schechter), has no support whatever
in the text.<note place='foot'>See above, p. <ref target='Pg341'>341</ref>.</note>
The <q>new covenant</q> in the land of Damascus
is plainly the obligation by which the members of the sect bind
themselves to the organization, with its peculiar interpretations
of the law and its distinctive observances. Neither in the terms
of the covenant nor in the law itself is there anything that suggests
Christian origin or influence. That <q>a man should love
his neighbor as himself</q> is not peculiarly or even preëminently
a Christian precept. The Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs
reiterate it; by the most orthodox rabbis it was recognized as
the most comprehensive commandment in the law.
</p>

<p>
The things which the sect esteems of vital importance lie wholly
in the sphere of the law; polemic zeal for a code which is at every
point more rigorous than that of the Pharisees is the salient characteristic
of both parts of the book. The moral precepts are
the commonplaces of Judaism narrowed to a sectarian horizon.<note place='foot'>The
commandment to love one's neighbor as himself, for example. In the
context of the covenant formula, in contrast to Jewish orthodoxy no less than to
Christianity, the neighbor is not the fellow man, nor even the fellow Jew, but
the fellow member of the schismatic church.</note>
<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>
The judgment of God is similarly circumscribed. It is not a
judgment of the world or of the Jewish people, but of those who
reject and controvert the legal interpretation of the sect, and of
those who have fallen away from it.
</p>

<p>
The code of law which is the constituent principle of the sect
and the reason for its existence was given it by its founder, the
Teacher of Righteousness. This unique teacher was not a prophetic
reformer, but <q>the interpreter of the law who came to
Damascus,</q> <q>the legislator.</q> The statutes he decreed are final;
the sect <q>shall receive no others until the teacher of righteousness
shall arise in the last times.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Margoliouth thinks that the <q>teacher of righteousness</q>
to whom the sect attributed its institutions and laws was Jesus.
The statement of this conjecture is its refutation. The rôle of
a legislator is the last which the character and teaching of Jesus
in the Gospels would suggest even to a sect in search of a
founder. That he, whose disregard for the Pharisaic rules of
Sabbath observance repeatedly got him into trouble, should,
within a generation after his death, have been metamorphosed
into the author of the sabbatical code in our texts, which out-pharisees
the Pharisees at every point, surpasses ordinary powers
of imagination. The Christian Jews of the first century in Palestine,
so far as we know anything about them, conformed in the
matter of observance to the authority of the scribes and Pharisees,
and alleged the express command of Jesus for this practice
(Matt. 23 2). Early Christian heresies sometimes exhibit ascetic
features reminding us of the Essenes; but none of ultra-legalistic
tendency is known.
</p>

<p>
As our sect is very zealous for things which have no connection
with Christianity, so on the other hand the texts disclose no trace
of specific Christian beliefs or conceptions. For the Christian
Jews of the first century, the belief that Jesus, who had been
crucified under Pontius Pilate, was the Messiah of prophecy,
that he had risen from the dead and ascended to heaven, whence
he was presently to come in might and majesty, according to
the vision of Daniel, to usher in the new era, was the pith and
substance of their faith, the <q>heresy</q> by which they were separated
from their countrymen, the focus of their polemic and
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
apologetic in controversies with those who rejected their Messiah.
It is impossible to imagine a writing as long as this, and imbued
as strongly as this with a controversial spirit, proceeding from
any Christian sect, in which there should not be so much as an
allusion to any of these things; or that a sect which put John
the Baptist in so high a place should not make something of
baptism in the admission of members.
</p>

<p>
Apart from these general considerations, Mr. Margoliouth's
identifications rest upon a palpable misinterpretation. On page 1
we read: <q>But because God remembered the covenant with the
forefathers, he left Israel a remnant, and did not suffer them to
be exterminated. And at the end of wrath ... he visited them
and caused to spring up from Israel and Aaron a root of his planting
<emph>to inherit his land and to prosper on the good things of his earth</emph>.</q>
The italicized clauses prove beyond question that the <q>root</q>
is not an individual, but is a collective designation for the first
generation of the sect.<note place='foot'>See above, p.
<ref target='Pg334'>334</ref>.</note> The parallel passage on p. 5 says explicitly:
<q>God remembered the covenant with the forefathers,
and he raised up from Aaron men of insight and from Israel
wise men, and he heard them, and they dug the well.</q> <q>The well
is the law, and they who dug it are the exiles of Israel who migrated
to Judah and sojourned in the land of Damascus.</q> In the face
of this perfectly plain meaning of the passage Mr. Margoliouth
takes <q>the root</q> for the person designated in other places as <q>the
Anointed from Aaron and Israel,</q> who led the people <q>to recognize
their wickedness and know that they were guilty men.</q><note place='foot'>That
the repentance of the people was brought about by the work of <q>the
root</q> is not suggested in any way in the text; on the contrary, the only natural
construction and interpretation of the passage would make the penitent generation
the same with that which is called <q>the root.</q></note>
In this first Messiah he recognizes John the Baptist, and, consequently,
in the Teacher of Righteousness who came after him,
Jesus. The point of correspondence is the relation between the
forerunner and his successor. The text, however, as I have just
showed, says nothing of a precursor of the teacher of righteousness;
on the contrary, it was this teacher who first brought light
to the generation which in the consciousness of its sin was
<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>
groping like the blind, and guided them in the way of God's
heart.<note place='foot'>See above, p. <ref target='Pg334'>334</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
That by the <q>man of scoffing</q> the Apostle Paul is meant is
for Mr. Margoliouth a corollary of the preceding identifications,
and falls with them. The enemies of Paul were doubtless capable
of calling him all sorts of hard names, but there is nothing in the
epithets <q>scorner</q> and <q>liar,</q> or in the doings attributed to
this figure, which fits Paul better than any other false teacher
and sower of discord, while the reference to the fate of the men
of war who followed the <q>man of lies</q> seems quite inapplicable
to Paul.<note place='foot'>Gressmann is sure
that this <q>man of lies</q> must be Bar Coziba (Bar Cocheba),
the Messianic leader of the rebellion under Hadrian. He might have
added that the contrast to the true star out of Jacob, the founder of the sect,
would be peculiarly pertinent. The punning etymology, <q>Say not <q>Star,</q> but
<q>liar</q></q> (Echa Rabbathi on Lam. 2 2), is ascribed to the Patriarch Judah.</note>
</p>

<p>
That we should be unable to identify the Covenanters of
Damascus with any sect previously known is not surprising.
The three or four centuries in the middle of which the Christian
era falls were prolific in sects and heresies of many complexions,
as were the centuries following the rise of Islam.
Through Philo, Josephus, the church Fathers, and the Talmud,
we are acquainted with some of them; but it is probable that
there were many others of which no reports have reached us.
If we cannot, out of the collection at our disposal, put a label
on our Covenanters, we may console ourselves with the reflection
that here we know one Jewish sect from its own monuments, and
that the texts in our hands, mutilated as they are, suffice to give
us a much clearer notion of its peculiarities than we get of most
of the other sects from the descriptions which have come down
to us.
</p>

<p>
Its affinities with various antipharisaic or antirabbinical parties,
such as the Samaritans, the Sadducees, and, in later times, the
Karaites, is obvious. It shared with all these a zeal for the letter
and the literal interpretation, and a disposition to extend the
law by analogy of principle, as a result of which their rules were
in general much stricter than those of the Rabbis, who possessed
<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>
in the theory of tradition and in their methods of exegesis the
means of adapting the law to changed conditions, and who were
also more disposed to give the precedence to the great principles
of humanity in the law over its particular prescriptions when
the two seemed to conflict. The organization of the sect, on the
other hand, has no parallel within our knowledge. In view of
the use of the name <q>camps</q> for the local communities, and
the references to the <q>mustering</q> of the members, the <q>trumpets
of the congregation,</q> and the like, it may be surmised that the
organization of Israel in the wilderness suggested the plan, and
that the Supervisors were meant to correspond to the chiefs of
the tribes (for instance, Num. 1 10), each having authority over
a separate camp.
</p>

<p>
The sect seems to have perpetuated itself for a considerable
time, otherwise this book would hardly have been preserved.
It may perhaps be conjectured that it survived long enough to
be gathered, along with numerous younger sects, into the capacious
bosom of Karaism, of which it was in various points a precursor.
Such an hypothesis would explain how it came about
that copies of the book were made in the tenth century and later,
we should then suppose by Karaite scribes.<note place='foot'>Perhaps
the manuscripts may have been in the possession of some Rabbanite
controversialist in Egypt, and thus found their way, like various Karaite
writings, into the Genizah of the Synagogue.</note>
</p>

<p>
Dr. Schechter has laid all students of Judaism under new obligations
by the discovery and publication of these texts. They
will join with their congratulations the hope that he may find yet
other treasures among the accumulations of the Genizah.
</p>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
